


ANOOP BUTOLA


SUMMARY
Hands-on Software Architect and Java Lead with over 11 years of experience designing and building scalable, resilient, and secure enterprise systems across domains, including Security, CRM, Telecom, and Banking. Specialized in developing cloud-native, loosely coupled microservices using Java  and
, with full-stack exposure to Angular and React for modern UI development.
Adept in applying proven architectural patterns, such as 
 to create high- performance, maintainable platforms. Strong advocate of DevOps culture, with practical expertise in CI/CD (Jenkins), Docker, Kubernetes, Helm chart, OpenShift, and solid experience deploying on AWS, including serverless components like 


Skilled in multithreading and concurrent programming, with a current focus on enhancing team efficiency through AI-assisted development tools, like GitHub Copilot, Claude, and internal LLM capabilities.




EXPERIENCE
Technical Lead/Software Architect, 08/2020 - Current
Rackspace Technology - Gurgaon, India
Architected & lmplemented Ticketing & Queues Platform using Spring WebFlux, Kafka, MongoDB, Postgres, Redis and Elasticsearch, handling high-volume traffic with low latency and horizontal scalability.
Implemented CQRS to optimize uneven read/write traffic, ensuring efficient queries and data consistency across distributed services, similar to financial transaction systems.
Implemented a distributed Data Caching System to sync tickets, accounts, customer data, permissions, support services, users etc from diverse sources, reducing search latency by 40%. Designed APIs to control sync jobs (start/stop) and enable efficient object search, ensuring fault-tolerant and highly available execution.
Designed a serverless, cost-efficient reporting engine using Python, AWS Lambda, API Gateway, DynamoDB, Fargate, and SQS. Implemented event- driven APIs to generate multiple report types asynchronously, tailored to services availed by customers, pulling data from BigQuery to deliver detailed usage insights.
Developed dynamic UI components, including ticket and queues with pagination, real-time updates, and attribute-based filtering, improving
 



CONTACT
Address: Gurgaon Haryana
Phone: 7837218200
Email: anoopbutola@gmail.com
WWW: Bold HYPERLINK "https://bold.pro/my/anoop-butola/606r"  HYPERLINK "https://bold.pro/my/anoop-butola/606r"Profile



WEBSITES, PORTFOLIOS, PROFILES
https://www.linkedin.com/in/anoop
-butola-0849693b/
https://github.com/AnoopButola



SKILLS
Programming languages: Java, Python
Frameworks and libraries: Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, FastAPI.
User interface: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, React, Angular
Relational databases: MySQL, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Oracle
NoSQL databases: Elasticsearch, Redis, MongoDB, Amazon DynamoDB
AWS services: EC2, Lambda, Fargate, SQS, S3, CloudWatch, SNS, IAM
CI/CD tools: Jenkins, Docker, OpenShift, Kubernetes

usability for large ticket volumes using Angular and React.
Implemented SAML, OAuth2, and OpenID for authentication and authorization across multiple service providers and Azure AD as IdP.
Achieved 95%+ test coverage using JUnit 5, Mockito, and parameterized tests, enforcing high-quality microservices standards.
Automated CI/CD pipeline for UI and backend applications, including RPM and Docker image creation, artifact management with JFrog, automated JUnit and integration tests in Docker environments, and staged deployments from staging to production and DR environments.
Completed EKS migration POCs using Apps-of-Apps pattern at the control plane, leveraging GitHub Actions, Helm, Secrets Manager, Kubernetes, Ingress, HPA, and Prometheus for scalable deployments.
Contributed to agentic integration of the Ticketing system with MCP server and internal CoPilot, enabling AI-assisted, natural language-based ticket operations and enhancing developer productivity.
Mentored a team of 6–8 developers by conducting peer code reviews, resolving blockers, overseeing assigned tasks, and ensuring alignment with sprint goals.
Senior Software Engineer, 05/2018 - 08/2020
Altran Technologies (Now Capgemini Engineering) - Gurgaon, India
Developed Rest APIs for CRUD operation to Job definitions. Implemented business logic on Engine side for same.
Written unit test and Functional test using JUnits and Mockito framework for easy deployment.
Added Rest APIs support for IBM SEAS as well as CLI Wrapper was created for same as part of MFT portfolio.
Did RCA for different customer issues and resolved same.
Created CI/CD environment for different applications.
Suggested and designed Threat Model which caters to vulnerabilities and resolved same.
Lead team of 4 developers and assisted them on different feature requests and shared knowledge across them.
Technology Stack: Java, Spring Boot, Spring JPA, Restful APIs, Hibernate, Gradle, JUnits, Mockito, LDAP, JMX, FTP, SFTP, SSH, SAML, SSO, PKI, GIT, OWASP, SONAR.
 
Servers: Tomcat, Jetty, NGINX, GlassFish, Gunicorn, Uvicorn, and Netty
Build tools: Maven, Gradle, Pyenv.
Testing frameworks: JUnit, Mockito, Pytest
Additional technologies: StreamSets, JFrog Artifactory, LDAP, REST API
RESTful APIs
Microservices architecture
Unit testing frameworks
Agile methodologies
Team leadership
Cross-functional collaboration
Problem solving
Critical thinking
Mentoring junior developers
Multithreading and concurrency
Cloud computing
Best practices implementation
Application development
Software architecture design

Software Engineer, 06/2017 - 05/2018
Dataguise (Now Pkware) - Mohali, India
Worked on DgSecure application which is core product of Dataguise and does discovery, encryption and masking of sensitive data present in any source be it File System, Database, Cloud etc.
Added support for Discovery, Encryption and Masking of sensitive data on the Files present on AWS S3 bucket. The core processing was happening in Amazon EMR cluster and result sets were stored in S3 or EMR FS in serialized form.

Created various APIs for DgSecure SaaS product and written Junits and functional test for same.
Added enhancements and fixed the bugs as and when required.
Worked on Hadoop and Hive Jobs for sensitive data discovery.
Technology Stack: Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JUnits, Hadoop, AWS, Gradle, ANT.
Java Developer, 06/2016 - 06/2017
Inteq Infotech - Panchkula, India
Worked on Accounts Receivable web application which manages all the accounting information of the customers right from opening till closing of the account.
Implemented transacation management module for receipt, invoices,
Designed and developed complete Transaction module which manages receipts, invoice and credit note details and syncs data from PDA on daily basis.
Designed Jasper reports for different invoices, Receipts etc.
Technology Stack: Java, Struts, Hibernate, MySQL, Jasper Reports, Maven.

Java Developer, 05/2014 - 05/2016
OOPs InfoSolutions - Chandigarh, India
Worked on Digital Dispatcher web application which takes care of Daily Vehicle Inspection Report in US. Using this various transport companies can track vehicle status and if found unsatisfactory can be sent to mechanic for repair.
Created Restful APIs for Android devices.
Role based login was implemented.
Designed email template and integrated SMTP service.
Technology Stack: Java, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL.


EDUCATION
Master of Computer Applications(MOFA attested), 06/2014
Panjab University Main Campus

Bachelor of Computer Applications, 07/2010
SASIIT



PROJECTS
Encore Ticketing developed new features on Encore's ticketing application using Java, Spring, and NoSQL databases, migrated ticketing applications to Rackspace's PaaS that uses RedHat OpenShift to extend Kubernetes, developed business logic, and created Elasticsearch queries in the API to fetch ticket data from the various back-end services and databases
MSR (Monthly Service Review) - This is a reporting module that generates a monthly service report for different accounts. The entire suite is

developed in Python 3 by leveraging different AWS services like AWS Gateway, Lambda, DynamoDB, SQS, Fargate, and S3
IBM Connect Director, SEAS, and Secure Proxy - Connect Director was developed as part of the upgradation of Connect Direct nodes in one click, developed a REST API, and worked on the engine side, which does the actual upgrade process of the packages
DgSecure – Dataguise (now Pkware) provides discovery, encryption, decryption, and masking of sensitive data in different platforms, be it HDFS, Hive, AWS, GCP, Azure, and various databases like MySQL, Postgres, and many more. This product is being used by various big giants in different domains, like banking, health, insurance, etc



ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Completed SAFE5 Practitioner Certification https://www.credly.com/badges/fc6fabe2-71a4-43b8-864d-b3762ef4ab65? source=linkedin_profile
Completed AWS Certified Developer Associate course from A Cloud Guru
Completed Docker, Kubernetes courses from LinkedIn


LANGUAGES
English: First Language


CERTIFICATIONS
Azure AI Fundamental certification
AWS Architect Associate certification