ANUTOSH TRIVEDI 
Data Science & Analytics 

Email: trivedianutosh26@gmail.com 
Mobile: +91-9145728977 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/anutosh-
trivedi-81379779/

Senior AI & Data Science professional with 7+ years of experience delivering advanced analytics, ML/DL models, and Gen AI solutions. 
Specialized in predictive modeling, decision intelligence, and LLM-based systems that convert large-scale data into actionable insights, 
driving automation, efficiency, and measurable business outcomes. 
 

 PROFILE SUMMARY 

•  AI Engineer  with  proven  success  in  delivering  data-driven  solutions  across  industries,  currently  leading  strategic  analytics 

initiatives at Mercedes-Benz R&D. 
Expert  in  advanced  analytics,  statistical  modeling,  and  machine  learning  to  optimize  business  performance,  improve  forecast 
accuracy, and solve real-world problems. 
Skilled in deriving insights from complex datasets through exploratory analysis, feature engineering, and model interpretation, 
with hands-on deployment of end-to-end solutions. 
Strong communicator with a talent for translating technical outputs into clear business narratives, enabling actionable decisions 
across cross-functional and non-technical teams. 

  SOFT SKILLS 

 TECHNICAL SKILLS 

Critical Thinking 

Problem-Solving 

Adaptability 

Ownership 

Accountability 

Communication 

• 

• 

• 

Programming Languages & Frameworks: Python, PySpark, 
Flask, FastAPI, LangChain, LangGraph 
Python Libraries: Pandas, Numpy, scikit-learn, seaborn, 
matplotlib, geopandas, pytorch, tensorflow, keras, NLTK, 
Spacy, H3, onnx, BeautifulSoup, pypdf, folium 
Cloud Technologies: AWS-S3, Azure Databricks, ADLS, Azure 
OpenAI, Azure Monitoring, Azure KeyVault, Azure ML Endpoint 

•  Data Warehousing & Databases: Snowflake, MongoDB, SQL 
Project Management & Collaboration Tools: MS Excel, Jira, 
• 
Confluence, Git, AirFlow, Azure DevOps, Jenkins 

•  AI/ML Models & Algorithms: Linear and Logistic Regression, 

Random Forest, Decision Tree, PCA, NLP, Clustering 
Algorithms (DBSCAN, K-means, K-medoids), Ensemble 
Techniques (Bagging and Boosting), LightGBM, XGBoost, 
GenAI, Milvus, GPT-4, LLM, SHAP, LIME, OpenAI, Optuna. 

 

• 

• 

• 

 

 

  WORK EXPERIENCE 

Oct’23-Present: Senior Engineer at Mercedes Benz Research and Development India (MBRDI), Bengaluru 
Key Result Areas: 

2020-2021 

•  Designed  and  deployed  a  RAG-powered  Generative AI  pipeline  for  generating insights  and  suggestions  for  internal 
business  teams,  enabling  intelligent  recommendations  and  automated  insight  generation  from  millions  of  Spark-
enriched data records. 

•  Directed a cross-functional initiative with marketing and sales teams to launch a strategic campaign focused on EU cities, 

utilizing proprietary clustering algorithms and building KPIs to identify and quantify the risk potential of hotspots. 

•  Presented the insights and results to stakeholders and business leaders to foster pro-active actions on improving road 

safety standards and monetize the product. 

•  Designed SAFeR model to quantify the complexity of hotspots based on the accident data and vehicle data and aligned 
product capabilities with stakeholder needs - including civic bodies - ensuring continuous model improvement and real-
world business impact. 

Highlights: 
DaaS (Data as a Service) 
•  Developed  a  scalable  data  enrichment  product  used  in  25+  countries,  leveraging  Spark,  machine  learning,  and 

clustering algorithms to enable the data collection team to significantly improve test drive coverage and efficiency. 

•  Enabled  new  analytics  capabilities  by  creating  KPIs  to  quantify  road  infrastructure  complexity  near  junctions  and 

roundabouts to mitigate the risk at cross traffic and pedestrian crossing. 

Road Safety Hotspot Campaigns 
• 

Identified  and  Classified  high  risk  potential  hotspots  from  integrated  data  sources  using  classical  ML  models  and 
algorithms like DBSCAN and XGBoostClassifier to scale the product to other countries across the EMEA region. 

•  Built  and deployed robust ML-powered  pipeline  in  Spark  using MLFlow, enabling  monthly updates on the  high risk 

hotspots and tracking key metrics for continuous monitoring. 

•  Designed and implemented a multi-lingual GenAI-powered RAG pipeline using GPT-4, OpenAI, LLM, LangChain, and 
vector  DBs  to  auto-generate  human-readable  observations  and  intelligent  suggestions  for  the  high-risk  potential 
hotspots from Spark-enriched data, enabling non-technical stakeholders and customers to access actionable insights 
instantly and reduce manual reporting effort by 70%. 

Apr’22-Sep’23: Data Scientist at Anko (Kmart Australia), Bengaluru 
Highlights: 
Customer Lapse Analysis | CLTV Model Implementation 
•  Created and implemented a Customer Lifetime Value (CLTV) model using probabilistic models, predictive analytics, and 

customer segmentation; this initiative led to a 13% recovery rate of churned customers within the first month, 
generating an additional AUD 200K in profit and guiding retention strategies. 

Product Quality Governance Tools | Cost Reduction 
•  Developed and deployed Product Quality Governance Tools using streamlit and Flask APIs to automate factory 

inspection processes; this innovation reduced man-hour costs, facilitated data-driven product quality audits, and 
minimized manual involvement and inspection errors. 

Shrink Analysis | Supplier Performance Automation 
•  Automated a Shrink Analysis mechanism which enabled data-driven supplier return thresholds; this boosted claim 

amounts by 40%, improved product quality and streamlined the supply chain by removing manual negotiations between 
buyers and suppliers. 

 PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE 

Mar’21-Apr’22: Data Scientist at Gramener Technology Solutions, Bengaluru 

Aug’20-Feb’21: Associate Big Data Engineer at Celebal Technologies, Jaipur 

Aug’17-May’19: Associate Engineer at Sears Holdings India, Pune 

•  PG Diploma in Data Science Engineering from Great Lakes Institute of Management in 2020 
•  B.Tech./B.E. in Electronics & Comm. Engineering from University College of Engineering Rajasthan Technical University in 

 

 

 

 EDUCATION 

2016 

PERSONAL DETAILS 

Date of Birth: 26th March 1993 
Languages Known: Hindi, English 
Permanent Address: - Udaipur, Rajasthan 
Current Address: - Bengaluru, Karnataka 

