   
Babu Mohan K                                                                                                                                		 			                Mobile:+91 9344025991
	                                                                      Email:kmohanbabukk@gmail.com

Objective

       Seeking a position to utilise my skills and abilities in the Information Technology industry that offers professional growth while being resourceful, innovative, and flexible.

Summary

Holding 6.5 years of IT experience as a software application developer.
Having experience in core java, Spring boot, JPA, REST webservices, microservices.
Good Experience in Java/J2EE web application development.
 Experience working Oracle, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat web servers.
Good knowledge on various Design Patterns.
Working knowledge on Junit, log4j, MAVEN
Good interpersonal skills, committed, result oriented, hard working with a Quest and zeal to learn new technologies.
 Problem Solving Attitude.
Education

Completed M.C.A from St. Joseph’s degree and PG college under OU.
Experience	

Working for  for wipro private limited since March  2022 till date
Worked for safexpay India private limited since December 2020 to  january 2022.
Worked for trinity mobility pvt ltd. Bangalore as software engineer from September 2019, to March 2020.
Worked for Aithent technologies, Chennai as a Software Engineer from august 2016.
To Sep 2019.
Technical Skills









Projects Profile

Project #5 File lookup Service
Client: ERICSSON
Environment: Java,Telecom, Spring Boot. REST webservices
Duration :Jan 2024 to 2025 Aug.
Role: Developer
File Lookup/Deletion Services-Developed a telecom application to optimize metadata processing from ENM applications. -Automated the process of listening to messages. data consumption, caching, and database processing significantly enhances application performance and reliability. -Implemented Cache, Batch processing, and JMS queue to optimize system functionality and data handling.
Contribution/Highlights:

Implemented logic to integrate the fls application with different applications
Implemented the replicated cache to store the file metadata
Implemented the schedulers to process the meta data
Writing groovy test cases for code coverage
Clearing Sonar Qube bugs and code smells.
Working closely with QA team to track the bugs to closure.
Worked on some of the bug fixes
Attending all the ceremonies related to Sprint as part of Agile.
Implementing complex business logic using java and spring boot. Understanding requirements and working on the user stories to meet the acceptance criteria.


Project #4 BNPL
Client: US Bank
Environment: Java, Spring Boot, JPA, REST webservices, microservices.graphql
Duration Jan 2022 to Oct 2023
Role: Developer

US Bank/ELAVON intends to enter the BNPL/POS lending business via a multi-channel, B2B2C market solution whereby U.S.Bank offers BNPL/POS lending solutions to merchants via API thus allowing the merchant's and consumers to apply for.receive response from and select a credit offering while in the merchant's own checkout excperience U.S Bank will be the primary funding source for consumer loans.

Contribution/Highlights:

Analysing Implementing microservices using spring boot rest and graphql to perform CRUD operations.
Writing Junit test cases using Mockito for implemented API's
Clearing Sonar Qube bugs and code smells.
Working closely with QA team to track the bugs to closure.
Attending all the ceremonies related to Sprint as part of Agile.
Implementing complex business logic using java and spring boot. Understanding requirements and working on the user stories to meet the acceptance criteria.






Project #3: F&O Client Onboarding
Environment: Java, Spring Boot, JPA, REST webservices.microservices
Duration: dec 2020 to Jan 2022.

Role: Developer

Bank of America is one of the largest trading brokerage firms which deals with different line of businesses for trading. Futures and Options is one of the important Igb. F&O Client onboarding is the starting point for any client to be part of Bank of Americas' trading platform. Client onboarding application contains different microservices to onboard new organization to bank of america's trading platform and to perform KYC for newly added clients to start with trading activities.

Contribution/Highlights:

Analysing and understanding the user story requirements and working on the user stories to meet the acceptance criteria.
Writing rest webservices using spring boot rest to perform CRUD operations.
Working closely with QA team to track the bugs to closure.
Attending all the ceremonies related to Sprint as part of Agile.
Implementing complex business logic using java and spring boot.




Project #2	: Social Intelligence
Environment	: Java, Spring Boot, JPA, REST webservices, JUnit,reactjs,redux
Duration	: Oct 2019 to Mar 2020.
Role		: Developer


Social Analytics Platform is a Big Data based Platform that enable Public Safety Agency to listen to the various social media networks and websites and enable correlation of the data into sentiment analytics which can be mapped to various type of public safety incidents.
The Platform enables the social listening of various social media channels through location, keywords, hash tags and users in near real-time. This transforms location-based social data to intelligence to understand what’s happening in the specific jurisdiction zones. 
The Platform enhance the situational awareness through social monitoring. It will allow hyper-local social search to monitor events, assess crisis areas and coordinate with field team. This allows the regulators to analyze the archived social data to identify keyword trends, time-based activity, influential contents, social sentiments etc. 


Contribution / Highlights:  
Receiving Service Requests from client, analyzing them, and implementing the changes.
Integrating application with Social Media Platforms using twitter4j,machine learning.

Implementing restful services and consuming services.
Worked on implementing UI forms using react js,redux.
Implemented complex business logic using java and spring boot.








Project #1	: Stafa-CT.
Client		: HCA
Environment	: Java, Spring, Hibernate,jsp, oracle,HL7
 Web   Services,Log4j,HTML,java script
Duration	: Aug  ’17 to Sep 2019.
Role		: Developer

Stafa Cellular Therapy is a software company that specializes in cellular therapy applications. Stafa-CT is completely Health care domain product. The product is aimed to facilitate CTL daily operation. Current scope is to capture the essential elements for product processing, Scheduling, and Billing. Eventually, the system should be able to tie in other operation components, such as consumable tracking, staff training, and etc. It has classified in to following modules such as Processing, Storage, and Release.
The purpose of this project is radically improve CTL’s(Cellular Therapy Laboratory) daily operation procedures, and hence promote better practice, manufacturing, and compliance; eventually to provide better quality cellular product to Patients. Benefits of this system are,
Ø  Significant time reduction for documentation and preparation
Ø  Accurate capture and calculation for product processing
Ø  Comprehensive system integration for Billing, Scheduling, and Processing
Ø  Real-time tracking for product, inventory, and equipment


Contribution / Highlights:  

Receiving Service Requests from client, analyzing them, and implementing the changes.
Consuming the provider services.  
Fixing the Bugs, according to Service Requests.
Responsible for writing Service classes.
Implemented DAOs in spring JDBC. 
Resolving some of the production issues.