
Anjaneyulu - Workday Integration and Prism Consultant



                                               Email:bachina.anji1@gmail.com


                                              Phone: +91 8500473935






Professional Summary
Over 7+  years  of  professional  IT  experience,  including  4.7  years  in
Workday, with a strong focus on integrations,  Prism  Analytics,  reporting,
and functional understanding of HCM. Experienced in implementation and post-
production  support  of  Workday  solutions.  Proficient  in   ,EIBs,   Core
Connectors (CCW, CCB), Workday Security, BIRT reports.

Expertise in Prism Analytics , Discovery Boards blending  Workday  and  non-
Workday data to deliver advanced reporting and analytics.


Core Qualifications & Skills
    ✓ Expertise  in  Handling  Implementation  and  Production  support  and
      interacting with business and resolving the issues.

    ✓  Expertise  in  understanding,  gathering  business  requirements  and
      sharing across team.
    ✓   Possess   foundational   understanding   of   Workday    Orchestrate
      components, including Data Request, Data Operations,  and  Orchestrate
      Logic.

    ✓ Having pleasant experience in  supporting  various  technical  aspects
      in Workday like in reporting and integrations Prism Analytics. 

    ✓ Developed reports and dashboards using  Workday  Prism  Analytics  and
      Discovery Boards to deliver  real-time  HR,  payroll,  and  compliance
      insights.
    ✓ Developed KPI dashboards using Discovery  Boards,  allowing  users  to
      filter, drill-down, and interact with visual data in real-time
    ✓  Built  Prism  data  pipelines  with  version   control   and   staged
      transformations to handle incremental loads and schema changes.
    ✓ Created multi-source datasets by blending Workday and  external  data,
      enabling 360-degree analysis of HR, Finance, and Operations metrics.
    ✓ Built reusable data pipelines in Prism,  enabling  scalable  ingestion
      and transformation of external data.
    ✓ Designed  and  maintained  Prism  datasets  using  calculated  fields,
      filters,  joins,  and  data  cleansing  steps  to  support  downstream
      analytics.
    ✓ Developed  and  maintained  various  custom-reports  types  (Advanced,
      Matrix ) by using report writer tool as per business requirement .

    ✓ Configuring the security for Various  integrations/  Reports  as  well
      as to Security group.

    ✓ Hands on experience  in  inbound/  outbound  integrations  using  core
      connector, EIB, business processes, Security, report writer etc.

    ✓ Involved in transformation of XML into XSLT for  presenting  data  for
      different Services.

    ✓ Have good knowledge on using  in Document transformation.

    ✓ Expertise in  PICOF  /PECI  integrations  from  workday  to  different
      Payroll systems.

    ✓ Involved in customizing various  delivered  BP  configurations  (hire,
      job change etc) like creating  condition  rules,  assigning  security,
      writing validation rules etc.

    ✓ Good Hands-on experience in  migrating  changes  from  one  tenant  to
      another tenant.

Professional Experience

Working As workday Application Developer in Bill Gosling India Pvt Ltd from
OCT 2024 to Till date.

Worked as workday Integration Developer in Bank of America payroll of   WF
Connect Technologies Mar 2018 to Apr 2024


Technical- Skills:

|Workday Skills        |Workday HCM, Workday Advanced Report Writer, Core       |
|                      |connectors PICOF/PECI, Prism Analytics, Document        |
|                      |Transformation and Workday Studio, EIB, Workday Web     |
|                      |Services.                                               |
|Programming Languages |XML, XSLT                                               |
|Web Technologies      |SOAP, XML, XSD, Web Services (WSDL & SOAP), XSLT.       |
|Operating Systems     |Windows XP/Vista/Windows7/8/10.                         |

Education Details:

    ← Graduate from Acharya Nagarjuna University, in 2015.

Project Profile:-
Project-3
Client                       :  Bill Gosling India Pvt Ltd
Role           :  Workday Application Developer

Description: Bill Gosling Outsourcing, a multinational corporation
headquartered in Barrie, Canada, operates across seven countries as a
leading BPO provider under the BGO brand, delivering services to a diverse
portfolio of clients across various industries.



Role and Responsibilities:

    ➢ Developed KPI dashboards using Discovery  Boards,  allowing  users  to
      filter, drill-down, and interact with  visual  data  in  real-time  In
      Workday Prism.
    ➢ Built reusable data pipelines in Prism,  enabling  scalable  ingestion
      and transformation of external data.
    ➢ Created multi-source datasets by blending Workday and  external  data,
      enabling 360-degree analysis of HR, Finance, and Operations metrics.
    ➢ Developed analytics Dashboards  utilizing  multiple  data  sources  to
      provide actionable reporting and embedded analytics.
    ➢ Experienced in analyzing and preparing Project  Deliverables  such  as
      Technical Design Document (TDD) and Functional Design Document (FDD).
    ➢ Integrations in Workday using  different  tools  like  CCW,  EIB,  DT,
      Custom Report and Workday
    ➢ Worked on Integration Systems (EIBs, Core Connectors).
    ➢ Created calculated fields and Worked on Simple and Advanced Reports.
    ➢ Responsible for supporting the new change  requests  and  enhancements
      in the Project
    ➢ Design of web services to send/receive data between Workday and  Third
      party system.
    ➢ Created test scripts and coordinated the testing effort with  all  the
      stakeholders for System and UAT.
    ➢ Prepared Business Requirement Documents (BRD), design  specifications,
      and  User  Acceptance  Testing   (UAT)   documentation,   along   with
      comprehensive test scenarios to  support  Workday  implementation  and
      validation.
Project-2

Client                       :  Bank Of  America

Role           :  Workday Technical & Prism Consultant

Description: The Bank of America Corporation is an American multinational
investment bank and financial services holding company headquartered at the
Bank of America Corporate Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, with
investment banking and auxiliary headquarters in Manhattan. The bank was
founded in San Francisco, California.



Role and Responsibilities:

    ✓ Understanding the Business Requirements  by  studying  the  Functional
      Documents.

    ✓ Responsible for Resolving the Tickets,  integrations Maintenance,  and
      Support, Regular Status meeting with  integration lead  and  providing
      the status update of integration.
    ✓ Involved in calls with client and update the work status  as  well  as
      clarifications if any.

    ✓  Handled  Workday  Service  Upgrade  Testing   for  all  the  existing
      integrations .

    ✓ Design, Build, Test, and  Deploy  Integration  solutions  for  Workday
      Customers.

    ✓  Creating  Supervisory  organizations,  Matrix   organizations,   Cost
      centers, Location and their  hierarchies,  Job  profiles,  Job  family
      groups and maintained them.

    ✓ Worked in preparation  of  reports  to  extract  employee  information
      from the HR data from HR  associates  and  partners  and  provided  to
      functional team.

    ✓ Understanding the Business Requirements  by  studying  the  Functional
      Documents.
    ✓ Created various EIB outbound integrations for sending  employees  data
      from Workday system to external DW System.
    ✓  Created  and  Enhanced  various  custom  reports  and  migrated  into
      various tenants .

    ✓ Developed various workday studio  inbound  and  outbound  integrations
      across systems.
    ✓ Created Various  custom  reports  types(Advanced,  matrix,  Composite,
      Trading)   as  per  the  client  requirement  and  preparing  the  UTP
      documents.
    ✓ Created EIB Inbound Integrations for loading  the  employees  personal
      Information  like,  Emergency  contacts,  Compensation,  Bank  account
      information, cost center information.

    ✓ Involved in  creating  and  supporting  various  integration  projects
      involving EIB, Core Connector and Workday Studio.

    ✓ Involved in calls with client and update the work status  as  well  as
      clarifications if any.
    ✓ Developed Several Complex Integrations using Workday Studio and EIB.
    ✓ Hands  on  Workday  systems  integration  experience  building  custom
      integrations using Cloud Connect and Document Transformation.
    ✓ Hands-on experience In  Migrating  the  XSLT  Code,  Reports,  workday
      studio,  EIB,  DT  integrations   from  Lower  tenet  to  Sandbox  and
      Production using Object Transporter.


Project-1

Client                      :  Bank of  America

Role           :  People Soft Consultant

Description: The Bank of America Corporation is an American multinational
investment bank and financial services holding company headquartered at the
Bank of America Corporate Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, with
investment banking and auxiliary headquarters in Manhattan. The bank was
founded in San Francisco, California.



Role and Responsibilities:

   ➢ Customized JOB DATA to accommodate  few  fields  which  are  using  as
     inputs for other systems.

   ➢ Developed  People  Code  to  implement  specific  business  rules  and
     validations to enable the system to perform the business process.

   ➢  Created  CI  with  AE  to  import  the  JOB  Requisitions  data  into
     PeopleSoft system from file  and  performed  some  validations  before
     inserting to PS system.

   ➢ Was involved in functionality of sending Emails notifications  through
     users with help of Send Mail Function.

   ➢ Used Process Scheduler to run scheduled process  at  a  specific  time
     and/or run recursively at a specific interval and used process Monitor
     to view status of the process.

   ➢ Creating new application engine program for sending employees data  to
     third party system.

   ➢ Generating the Relocation Letters As per HR  request  and  sending  to
     the Daily Process Report to the client.

   ➢ Responsible for various  customizations  of  fields,  records,  pages,
     components  and  menus  as  per  the  client  requirements  by   using
     Application Designer










   I hereby declare that the information provided above is true to the best
   of my knowledge.




      Date

      Place
                                           Name

                                                            B.Veeranjaneyulu






