Baibhav K
Software Development Engineer II
		k11baibhav@gmail.com 	 9073728511 		Bengaluru, Karnataka 
 www.linkedin.com/in/kr-baibhav 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

Software Engineer with 5+ years of experience designing and building scalable, high-availability backend systems using Java, Spring, and relational databases. Strong experience with AWS cloud services and infrastructure automation using Terraform and Ansible. Proven ability to work in distributed systems environments, having working knowledge of React.js to support end-to-end product development.
SKILLS

Java, Spring Boot, Spring Web, AWS, Terraform, Ansible, SQL, Microservices, React JS, Maven, Git
WORK EXPERIENCE


Software Development Engineer II (Consultant)
Thoughtworks
 Built event-driven architectures with Java, Spring Boot, Kafka, and IBM MQ,•	 enabling 50K+ events/day processing with 99.9% reliability, and deployed workloads on AWS.
Developed scalable REST APIs using Java and Spring Boot, optimising queries•	 and caching to achieve sub-1s API latency and 25% faster responses. Implemented batch pipelines with Spring Batch, increasing data throughput by•	 40% and cutting processing time.
Maintained 90%+ unit test coverage, reducing regressions by ~30% and•	 supporting rapid, safe deployments.
Delivered backend features in Agile sprints, contributing to design, planning, and•	 achieving 95% on-time delivery across releases.
Digital Engineering Engineer
Apisero Inc. (An NTT DATA Company)
Built web-based enterprise applications using •	Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Web, JPA and Mulesoft.
Involved in the development of frontend for web applications using •	React JS, HTML5 and CSS3.
Experience in writing • unit tests using junit, debugging and bug fixing. Improved error handling mechanism to make the code more reliable and error• proof.
Software Engineer
Rebaca Technologies
Worked on web-based enterprise applications and test automation tools using• Java 8, Spring mvc, Spring Boot and Cucumber.
Involved in development of frontend built using •	HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery. Experience in writing unit tests, debugging and bug fixing.•
March 2024 – present
Bengaluru
October 2021 –
March 2024
Hyderabad
August 2020 –
October 2021 Kolkata

EDUCATION
B.Tech	August 2016 – July 2020
Institute of Engineering and Management	Kolkata
8.75 DGPA
PROJECTS

Fraud Risk Mitigation System
Goldman Sachs
Working on java based event-driven solution which performs fraud risk mitigation of all the banking•	 transactions.
Deploying and managing infrastructure on AWS using Terraform and Ansible.•
Managing dashboards in Datadog and alerts in PagerDuty•
Working collaboratively within Agile teams to deliver iterative, high-quality solutions.•
Mentoring peers to accelerate individual contributions and uplift team productivity.•
	Technologies: Java, Spring Boot, AWS, Terraform, Ansible, Apache Kafka, IBM MQ, Oracle, Datadog, Maven,•	 
Gitlab
Service Request Automation
Kotak Bank
 Microservice based solution built using java and spring boot to automate the service request lifecycle for•	 retail banking services.
Actively participated in the development and design discussions.•
Technologies: Java, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Spring Security, AWS, Maven•
Bharat Interface for Money(BHIM)
National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI)
Payment Service Provider which integrates with UPI and BBPS to provide bill payments and peer to peer•	 transaction services.
Technology: Java, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Redis Cache, PostgreSQL, Maven, Jenkins, JUnit 5, Linux•
MDM Integeration
Boundless Learning
An integration solution to facilitate data sync up across multiple end systems.•
Technologies - Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Web, Spring Data JPA, SQL, ReactJS, HTML5, CSS3, Anypoint MQ,•	 Mulesoft
Insurance Rater
Goosehead Insurance
Web-based application for aggregating insurance quotes.•
Technologies - Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Web, JPA, Hibernate, SQL, ReactJS, HTML5, CSS3, Salesforce,•	 Mulesoft
Test Script Generator
Bosch
Web application to produce automated test cases from csv files•
Technologies - Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Mvc, HTML 5, CSS 3, jQuery and Cucumber framework.•
LANGUAGES

English, Hindi