

Bhakti Anum
Software Development Engineer 2
Versatile Senior Java Developer experienced with the full software development lifecycle and comfortable working within Agile development frameworks. Organized and hardworking team player with strong verbal and written communication skills. Prepared to bring
7.6+ years of related experience to a challenging position.

Work History







Address
Raipur, IN 492001
Phone
8602819331
E-mail
bhaktianum250325@gmail.com
LinkedIn
https://www.linkedin.com
/in/bhakti-
anum-4b18b5173?




Core Java
Upper intermediate Advance Java
Upper intermediate

Spring Boot Framework
Upper intermediate Spring Webflux
Intermediate

Microservice
Intermediate

SQL
Intermediate
2024-03 -
Current





























2021-06 -
2024-03
Software Development Engineer 2
TEKsystems, Gurgaon, India
Expedia Group

Develop and manage APIs for the Cars module, enabling seamless car search functionality on the Expedia platform.
Utilize Scala, Java, and Kotlin to build microservices aimed at creating LOB-agnostic platforms.
Lead the One-Pricing Project, a unified platform for applying taxes and prices across all Expedia Lines of Business (LOBs).
Implemented a proxy layer for the primary Cars project to ensure smooth integration and data flow.
Designed a mapping and logic layer for seamless downstream service integration to standardize tax and pricing applications.
Collaborate in an Agile environment, ensuring high performance, scalability, and alignment with domain- specific requirements.

Technology used: Java, Kotlin, Scala, Splunk, Redis, Microservices, Design Pattern, Spring boot
Associate Technology L2
Publicis Sapient, Gurgaon, India
DollarTree Ibotta (07/23-03/24)
This is a Webflux Spring application which uses third party api's to fetch a data and show as a coupon detail in their retailer website and mobile application. It uses router to handle multiple API and as a return Flux/Mono for their request. It is a webflux and functional reactive application with java 17 which



MongoDB


AWS


Kubernetes


Docker


NewRelic


Grafana


Intermediate


Intermediate


Intermediate


Intermediate


Intermediate
doesn't use the annotation and implemented the business logic in functional way.
Technology used: Java-8, Webflux,Reactive Programming,Spring Boot,Docker,Kubernetes,Redis,Caching,AWS- Cloudwatch,Athena,S3,Microservices,Design Pattern.

McDonald's Value Creation Engine (03/2023-06/2023) This is a nodejs and reactjs microservice project which consist of 8 orchestration services and PostgreSQL. This app is used by McDonald's clients to create campaigns/Offer which McDonald's uses for their outlets. This application has an UI which was
developed in react JS which give a functionality to user to add the campaigns details which include images, product description,location,React Big Calender.

Upper intermediate Promentheus
Intermediate

JAVA 8,11,17
Upper intermediate Microservice Design Pattern
Intermediate

Redis Caching
Intermediate
Technology used: NodeJS,ReactJS,MongoDb,Docker,Kubernetes,NewReli c.
McDonald's Error Budget (06/2021- 12/2022) This is a Spring Boot application with Java version 8 which is used as an exporter application in monitoring process. Here all the data come from mongo DB where all the job details are present. Error Budget is used to manipulate the data as per the business need and generate the Prometheus supported output. EB is using two data sources to maintain the backward development and new clients.
Below is the functionality present in Error Budget tool:

Pick data from MongoDB and generate a Prometheus supported output.
Prometheus supported output is then used in Grafana to show graphs and status of the jobs.
Technology used: Java8,SpringBoot,Microservices,MongoDb,MySQL,Desig n Pattern,AWS-Cloudwatch,Athena,S3.
McDonald's Automation Monitoring(06/2021- 12/2022): This Spring Boot application is used to pick the data from Grafana dashboards which EB generated and compare the data from MySql / MongoDB and then it generate the automated report file to send it to client to compare the EB functionality and client need. Here












2018-02 -
2021-06
we have used Cron Scheduler to run this application daily in particular schedule. RestAPI is also used to get the data from different API and put it in report.
Technology used: Java 8,SpringBoot,Microservices,MongoDb,MySQL,Design Pattern.
Software Engineer - Developer
Guardian India, Gurgoan, India
OFA (Outbound Feed Automation) (05/2019 - 06/2021) OFA is tool that works on automating outbound feeds for a client for keeping records on Employee Leave Status, Payment during absence & time duration while on leave using Web application and standalone application. This tool provides rule engine to application which depends on client requirement to distinguish between employee leaves and plans(paid/unpaid).
Technology: Java 8 ,SpringBoot, MySQL,MultiThreading,Microservice
AM360: Amazon Hartford Feed (03/2018-04/2019) Amazon Hartford Feed is a module under Leave Absence Management System named AM360 which include feed file type to maintain leave related data. This app is basically used to apply a leave type as per a client requirement.
Technology used: SpringBoot,Microservices,MySQL.



Education



2012-06 -
2016-06
Bachelor of Engineering: Computer Science & Engineering
Shri Shankaracharya Engineering College(CSVTU) - Bhilai
GPA: 7.5



Certifications

2015-03	Core Java

2017-01	Advance Java + Spring Framework


2018-04	SAFe Practisioner

2022-06	Full stack Developer from IIT Mandi

Accomplishments

Achieved Champion of the Months from McDonald's Client through effectively delivering high quality code and understanding the client requirement.
Achieved Star of the Sprints multiple times by completing high priority tasks with accuracy and efficiency.
Collaborated with team of 5 in the development of Error Bugdet.