
Debi Prasad Mohanty
 debimohanty1979@gmail.com	 838 009 0166	 Bangalore, India  debi-prasad-mohanty-801169191

SUMMARY	Lead DevOps Engineer with 15 years of experience driving cloud transformations on AWS and GCP. Expert in designing CI/CD pipelines, implementing DevOps/SRE best practices, and leading high-performing teams. Proficient in GitHub, GitHub Action, Jenkins, Docker, Ansible, Terraform, Kubernetes, Artifactory, Confluence, Jira, Grafana, Prometheus, and DataDog. Focused on automation, Cloud cost optimization, system performance and managing end-to-end application deployment in Production Environment. Proven track record of delivering solutions in financial, retail, telecom, and supply chain.


WORK EXPERIENCE








                                       Sambalpur University, Orissa
Master’s in computer application (MCA) 


Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO)-Jfrog Artifactory Purge

Designed and developed Jfrog artifactory's purge process for FICO using python and Artifactory Query Language (AQL) for fetching outdated docker images/maven artifacts. Processed over 550TB artifacts in total. Executed using a Jenkins pipeline.
Reduced S3 storage cost from $10k to $3k. Uploaded purged artifacts report to AWS S3.
Designed and developed a process for excluding or extending time period of an artifact from purging. Automated this process using Service Now request and automated Jenkins pipeline job.
Integrated purge process pipelines with Splunk for capturing logs.
Created a WAF enabled AWS CloudFront distribution for viewing the purge reports.
Levi’s Strauss & Co - Buy Plan Portal (BPP)
Buy Plan Portal application was created to meet the inventory management needs of franchisee owners. It provided accurate demand forecasting, minimizing stockouts and overstocks. By automating processes and facilitating communication with suppliers, it enhanced operational efficiency. The application delivered business value by optimizing inventory, improving productivity, and enhancing customer satisfaction.
Levi’s Strauss & Co - Promo Dashboard
The Promotion Dashboard is a tool that enables tracking and analysis of promotional activities in US Outlet and Mainline Stores. 
DXC Technology - GIPSY
Managed NETS GIPSY system processing, handling giro payments from banks and private customers.
Cognizant Technology - ALIS
Experienced with ALIS, supporting the design of life, pension, annuity, and medical insurance products for individual and group markets.
Worked on CoreSuite for Life & Annuities, enabling digital transformation, legacy system consolidation, and efficient administration of insurance operations.
Tech Mahindra - Exchange links Connectivity (Trading & Shared Services)
Developed and maintained Exchange Links Connectivity, an in-house test automation tool for Mercury core features and market-specific behaviors.
Designed application to capture and replay trades from production to development for Fixed Income markets, ensuring accurate trade validation and reporting.
Implemented complex features including rate control, message throttling, and intermediate state tracking to align with exchange behavior.
Conducted stress and volume testing with detailed validation reports to ensure system reliability.



            





SKILLS	• Software Products/Languages: C, C++, Python, Shell Script
Integration and automation tools: Jenkins CI/CD Pipeline, GitHub Action and Terraform
Database:  MySQL
Deployment Tools: Kubernetes, Docker and Argo CD
Configuration Management Tools: Ansible
IDE: PyCharm, Visual Studio
Repository: GitHub
Artifactory: Jfrog Artifactory
Operating System: Linux
Monitoring Tools: Cloud Watch, Prometheus, Grafana, DataDog
Ticket Tracking tools: JIRA, Confluence, Service Now
Private Cloud: AWS, GCP


CERTIFICATION
AWS certified Solution Architecture
Terraform Associate
Certified Kubernetes Application Developer 
Certified Rancher Operator

LANGUAGE	        English, Hindi and Odiya
