DHARESH KUMAR DAGA
Senior Software Engineer
Mobile: 7975031187
E-mail: dhareshjain2@gmail.com
Professional Summary:
Overall, 6+ years of experience in the field of IT which includes ETL Testing, Manual Testing, & Development
Having experience in Data warehousing (ETL) and Report Testing, Azure Data Factory, Azure Data Bricks Development.
Have worked on Snowflake database for data retrieval purpose.	
Have worked on Azure Data Factory, Azure Data Bricks tool for 3 Years.
Worked in various domains i.e., 2+ years into Retail, 2+ years into Insurance, 
1 year into Life Science domains.
Proficient in designing Database objects for Data warehouse projects.
Experience on end-to end project implementation, Data Models and ETL process.
Hands on experience in writing SQL queries to validate the data.
Good experience to Data Warehousing concepts.
Good experience in Star and Snowflake schemas, Fact and Dimension Tables.
Experience on different databases like MS SQL Server, Oracle Database, Snowflake 
Experience in Informatica Power Centre workflow monitor.
Having experience in Py - spark, Python.
Having knowledge in Delta Lake Tables.
Having experience in Client call management, Azure SQL Database and Azure Blob Storage,
ADLS gen2, Azure Synapse Analytics.
Having knowledge on Microsoft Fabric


Technical Skills:
Development		: ETL Development
Testing		    	: ETL Testing
Operating Systems	: Windows
Databases	: Oracle (10g, 11g), SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), Snowflake, 
                                       Azure SQL Warehouse, Azure Synapse Analytics
Test Management Tool	: JIRA, Azure Dev ops, HP ALM
ETL Tool                      	: Informatica Workflow Monitor Window, 
Azure Data Factory, Azure Data Bricks, Azure Synapse Analytics
Job Scheduling Tool   	: BMC Control M Basic knowledge
Model                           	: Agile Model
BI Tool			: Power BI 
Certifications 		: Data Services Azure, SQL completed in Turing.com
Professional Affiliations:
Worked as a Senior Software Engineer in CGI ISMC Pvt Ltd, Bangalore 
from March 2023 to Oct 2023
Worked as a Senior Software Engineer in Technosoft Global Solutions LLP, Bangalore
from Feb 2022 to Feb 2023
Worked as a Senior Software Engineer in TalentPloyer Pvt Ltd, Bangalore
from June 2021 to July 2021
Worked as a Senior Software Engineer in TalentPloyer Pvt Ltd, Bangalore
from Sep 2021 to Dec 2021
Worked as a Software Engineer in UBQ Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bangalore
from Jan 2015 to July 2019

Education:

Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) from Karnataka University (Year-2011)

Projects Details:
PROJECT #1: Stone Eagle, Worked in CGI
Project Title			:  Stone Eagle, FI
Clients			:  Stone Eagle
Duration			:  Mar 2023 to Oct 2023
ETL Tool			:  Azure Data Factory, Azure Data bricks
Database			:  Azure SQL
Ticketing Tool			:  JIRA

Description:
Stone Eagle is a vehicle insurance company that provides Creation of Contracts, Claims of various product types, verify Insurance Coverage groups, rating facilities through its application like Secure Admin Dealer, Dealer Portal. It works on various modules of the application like Agent, Insurers, Admin Company and Products.  
Roles and Responsibilities:
Analysing business requirements through the mapping document.
Move, transform and analyse data by using Azure Data Factory activities like copy activity,
get meta data activity and lookup activity.
Validating the current & historical data and audit fields as part of SCD Type 2
Validations.
Developing Stored Procedures, Functions and Azure synapse analytics
Used Azure Data Bricks for Data Ingestion & Creation of Pipelines & Data Ingestion in Azure Data Factory, merging the Data Frames, Extracting the data through Azure Blob Storage, Azure Data Lake, Azure SQL & On-premises SQL Server.



PROJECT #2: Ultracam, Worked in Technosoft Global Solutions LLP
Project Title			:  Ultracam
Clients			:  Ultragenic Research Technologies Pvt Ltd
Duration			:  Feb 2022 to Feb 2023
ETL Tool			:  Informatica
Database			:  Oracle, SSMS
Data Querying Tool 		:  Toad
Ticketing Tool			:  JIRA

Description:
Ultra cam brings together Life sciences domain expertise, third party system knowledge and Deep technology to develop well defined solutions which addresses challenges across Medical Affairs, Regulatory and Safety functions.
Roles and Responsibilities:
Analysing business requirements through the mapping document.
Validate the count, data mapping between application & database.
Validate Source & Target record Count.
Validating the current & historical data and audit fields as part of SCD Type 2
Validations.
Validating transformations logic.

PROJECT #3: CVS IDW, Worked in TalentPloyer Pvt Ltd
Project Title			: CVS IDW
Clients			: CVS Health, USA
Duration			: Sep 2021 to Dec 2021
Database			: Snowflake
Ticketing Tool			: JIRA
Job Scheduling			: BMC Control-m
File placing tool		: FileZilla

Description: 
CVS sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of general merchandise, including over-the-counter drugs, beauty products and cosmetics, film and photo finishing services, seasonal merchandise, greeting cards, and convenience foods through their CVS Pharmacy and Longs Drugs retail stores and online through CVS.com.

Roles and Responsibilities:
           •     Analysing the business requirements through the Mapping Document.
            •     Searching for the file from the Archive Path and downloading in the local system  
            •     DDL Comparison between Raw, Core Layers and with Mapping documents, Source            
                  File Layout.
            •     Performing Initial Load, Incremental Load, Duplicate data load, already existing data     
     from the Core table.
            •     Validating the current & historical data and audit fields as part of SCD Type 2.
            •     Sending Observations/Expected results to the team. 
            •     Analysis of Job Failures and altering the File as per the error found in log to load so 
     that file gets archived in Target Paths.
            •     Logged the defects in Jira which is found during the testing.
           •    Have experience in monitoring the workflows/jobs/ETL processes.


Project #4: Costco, Worked in UBQ 
Project Title			: Costco
Clients			: Costco Retailer, USA
Duration			: Apr 2017 to July 2019
ETL Tool			: Azure Data Factory, Azure Databricks
Database			: Azure SQL, Oracle
Ticketing Tool			: JIRA.

Description:
Costco Retail Food Stores, which is one of the Organizations that sells various numbers of products. Costco have various stores, which maintains Database has lots of historical data. This project was to create Sales Data Warehouse and generate reports using Business Objects. 
The aim of sales data warehouse is to analyse sales of major brands varying with different promotional schemes. The system has a database which stores information about sales, profits and contacts of customers. Using this existing database, the system should analyse the sales and profit and generates reports for sales and profits in month wise and year wise. The resulting model gives us an idea about growth in profit, prediction about increase in sales. 

Roles and Responsibilities:
Understanding Requirement Specifications and Design Documents.
Move, transform and analyse data by using Azure Data Factory activities like copy activity,
get meta data activity and lookup activity.
Developing Stored Procedures, Functions and Azure synapse analytics
Development experience in Power BI.
Prepared and run SQL scripts.
Database testing and validating the data between source and target database.
Reporting to daily standup call.
Used Azure Data Bricks for Data Ingestion & Creation of Pipelines & Data Ingestion in Azure Data Factory, merging the Data Frames, Extracting the data through Azure Blob Storage, Azure Data Lake, Azure SQL & On-premises SQL Server.

PROJECT #5: Aflac Life Insurance, Worked in UBQ 
Project Title			:  Aflac Life Insurance
Clients			:  Aflac
Duration			:  Jan 2015 to Mar 2017
ETL Tool			:  Informatica Power Centre
Database			:  Oracle, SSMS
Data Querying Tool 		:  Toad
Ticketing Tool			:  HP ALM

Description:
Aflac Life Insurance is a complete Life insurance project and it is a web based. It is mainly focused on Life insurance for a customer. This product reduces the financial vulnerability to natural disasters through Life insurance coverage. It covers entire functionality for a customer from the policy issued date till to the policy renewal date. It broadly consists of following modules like Agent management, New Business Management, Policy Management, Product Management, Accounts, Reinsurance and Underwriting.

Roles and Responsibilities:
Understanding Requirement Specifications and Design Documents.
Experience on complete implementation of project and understanding end to end flow of ETL jobs and logic.
Running the Jobs for ETL process.
Prepared and ran SQL scripts.
Verifying the data in target database.
Reporting to daily standup call 


