DHYAN SINGH
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
Phone number :7387448901	LinkedIn profile: @Dhyan Singh Email address : dhyan902017@gmail.com

Experienced Software Development Specialist with more than 8 years of experience with a strong background in full stack development, including expertise in Java, concurrency ,Multithreading and microservices architecture.Proven ability to enhance system functionality and streamline operations through API development and cloud integration. Ready to leverage skills in async communication and cloud services along with workflow engines like camunda and flowable engines to drive impactful solutions for the next team.



Core Java, Java 8,17,21 AWS and Microsoft AZURE Camunda
Flowable, BPMN 2.0
High-Level Design (HLD) creation Low-Level Design (LLD) creation Object-oriented programming (OOP)
Spring,Hibernate Spring boot 3 RESTful Web services
SVN repository , Git, bitbucket Concurrency
Multithreading
Docker, Kubernetes, Open Shift
Couchbase PostgreSQL Apache
Kafka,Kafka(Conductor) IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse (Mars) SOLID Design Principles Design Patterns



A result-oriented professional with hands-on experience in application development, enhancement, and service delivery in the Logistic ,Telecom and Banking domain.
Worked as a software development specialist in the R&D core team for the Order Handling product. Handled multiple NFRs to improve logging, error handling, system downtime.
Designed, implemented, and optimised Business Process Management (BPM) workflows using Flowable and Camunda to enhance operational efficiency and automation.
Managed microservices architecture utilizing REST APIs and Kafka

IT Full Stack Developer,UBS	Oct 2024 - Present

Developed and maintained an internal compliance portal end-to-end, implementing frontend with React.js, backend services with Java, and database management using PostgreSQL.
Enhanced internal trade approval module enabling employees to submit pre-trade requests via a React.js UI; integrated with Flowable workflow engine to trigger and handle multi-level approvals, automating trade request approval or rejection based on defined business rules.
Improving code quality using best practices of Micro-service architecture with centralised logging, exception handling and distributed tracing.
Created reusable components that can be shared across different projects, reducing development time.
Designed, created, and migrated BPMN workflows from Camunda 7 to Camunda 8 and Flowable.

Software Development Specialist ,Amdocs	Dec 2019 - Oct 2024


 Implemented multiple bridges that interact with changing, billing and shipping systems.
 Designing and developing the API for the application includes async messaging (using Kafka), interacting with the database (Couchbase), and handling system design-related issues, ranging from API design to database consistency.
 Created end-to-end BPMN workflows using Camunda 7 after close collaboration with Architects and Business Analysts, and integrated them with Java-based applications for seamless process execution.
 Addressed and rectified defects in FIT, Integration, and NFT stages, enhancing product quality by 20% and minimizing post release issues, contributing to a smoother user experience and increased customer satisfaction.
 Closely involved in implementing deployments, such as blue-green , Active-Active deployments.
 Handled both the technical and business aspects of the order management team required to implement Amdocs' own disaster recovery (DR) system. We were successful in implementing the same in both OpenShift and AWS.
 Involve in discussions with architects and the PDO to understand the end customer's requirements provide an effective solution.
 Generated the business process and mediation flows. Initiating change requests and providing end- to-end support to resolve issues until the code is moved to the production environment.
Associate Consultant ,Syntel	May 2017 - Nov 2019  Understanding and writing code using Java/J2EE technologies.
 Involved in the implementation of new requirements as per the SRS.
 Managing and monitoring the AppDynamics cloud tool for memory utilization by load servers.
  Writing REST API’s and creating Kafka topics to communicate between multiple micro-services.
 Delivering solutions for provided technical specifications, installing application software and  deploying customizations, and contributing to code reviews.





B.Tech ,Shri Ramswaroop Memorial College of Engineering and Management (UPTU, Lucknow).
Aug 2012 - Jun 2016





Languages: English, Hindi.
Awards/Activities: Agile Global Value Award (2018), employee of the Quarter (Q1, Q3 2023 ,Q2 2024). Certificates: BPMN, DMN, Camunda 8 Low-Code Developer, Camunda 8 Developer(Camunda Academy).