Dinesh Satpute
Address :- G-1404, R10 Universe, Life Republic, Marunji, Pune, 411057 Email :- dsatpute0711@gmail.com Contact No :- +91 8888186889
CareerObjective
To associate with a vibrant organization, to fully utilize my knowledge, skills and contribute to the overall growth of the organization.
CareerSummary
7.6 years of experience in the overall Software Development lifecycle and evolution of Enterprise products / applications using Java.
Hands on proficiency on Migrating monolith application architecture to Microservice architecture – using JAVA, Spring, Spring-boot, Quarkus, Hibernate/JPA, Web-Services, SQL(Oracle PostgreSQL), Kubernetes, Docker, Kafka, AWS, Junit, Jenkins etc.
Expertise in project life cycle (Requirement Analysis, Designing, Coding, Integration, Debugging, Documentation) and production support.
Focused, Energetic and Quick Learner.
Good communication and motivational skills.
Experienced in banking, healthcare and ERP domain.
litauicaryoSum	fQions
ExperiencedIn:

JAVA, J2EE
SQL & PL\SQL
Unix/Linux
Data Structures
Web Services (Restful)
Microservices

Languages
ProficientIn:
English
Hindi
CareerHistory
GLOBANT, Pune, India
Kubernetes
Docker
Spring
Spring Boot
AWS
OpenJPA / Hibernate
Junit
Zookeeper
Tomcat
Oracle
PostgreSQL
MySQL
IntelliJ /
Eclipse / STS
Jira
Maven
Jenkins


Marathi
Harness
Scripting
Languages (Shell, Perl)
Git / GitHub
Bitbucket
SONAR
Quarkus

rFlprotCiPjcn:tESise/rsvESF(ericeFramework)	January 2024 – Present
Role: Web developer
Product: Enterprise Service Framework - Multi Banking core systems integration platform.
Technology Stack: JAVA, Spring, Spring-boot, Quarkus(For Finxact Banking Core), Microservices, OpenJPA, Docker, Pivotal/Azure Cloud and MSSQL DB, Redis Cache, Maven, Jenkins, Kafka, ReactJs, Harness, Fortify, SONAR, etc.
Experience:
MSS ( Multi System Service ) - Created the design and plan to enhance the business capabilities of ESF as a product to be able to interact with multiple core systems and provide services to clients and organizations from different core banking systems ( Premier, Signature, Cleartouch, Finxact etc.)
rvdPlioCrPtCa(nISDiteHGjA/:Pec/nceices)	June 2022 – December 2023
Role: Web developer

Product: The project is designed to manage and provide pricing information for products within the GAP ecosystem. This service aims to ensure accurate, real-time price updates, facilitate pricing strategies, and support various business functions such as sales, inventory management, and promotions.
Technology Stack: JAVA, Spring Boot, Microservices, postgreSQL DB, Gradle, Github Workflows, Kafka, SONAR, Docker, JPA, Redis Cache, ArgoCD, etc.
Experience:
frvltrwidhmipBauscIriaPlAsifnsnerctERstSnecdphro	T	f t	o	e	lows.
slhrdtrcpaundiAvniuctre	vn	ingkafka.
UnittestedcodeusingMockito,JUnit.                                ftridcdalPrcntiagidvudianpedistgceno		mns	ns	ions.

Cybage Software, Pune, India	March 2021 – May 2022 Software Engineer
Client/Project: Patientpay_RCM
Role: Web developer
Product: Hospital/Billing Management System
Technologies: JAVA, Spring, Web-Services, AWS, Kafka, Docker, Kubernetes, Microservices, MSSQL, Bitbucket, JSON, Jenkins, etc.
Experience:
This project is designed for the US region. It is a healthcare domain project.
Patient pay RCM provides an effective revenue cycle management solution that should overcome one of healthcare's biggest challenges like outdated patient billing and payment processes. Whether you're an RCM organization that works with hospitals and physician groups, or an EHR/billing solution responsible for sending bills and capturing payments from patients, we've got you covered. It is a Flexible, Secure, and Effective Patient Revenue Cycle Management Solution.


Lighthouse Info Systems, Nagpur, India	January 2019 – February 2021 Technical Member (Java Developer)
Client/Project: Lweberpmain, Lweberpadmin
Role: Web developer
Product: It is a web ERP application. It is used to make industry digital.
Technologies: Java (1.8), Spring boot, REST, JSON, SVN, Oracle database.
Experience: It helps to implement resource planning by integrating all of the processes needed to run their companies with a single system.
An ERP software system can also integrate planning, purchasing inventory, sales, marketing, finance, human resources, and more. Lweberpmain is a main application that connects all child applications like lweberpmadmin, etc. All the applications are Multi-Tenant Applications.

Client/Project: B2BApp
Product: Business to Business Application
Technologies: Java (1.8), Struts 2, REST, JSON, SVN, Oracle database.
Experience: EB2BApp are used by companies that sell or market their goods and services to other companies and not to the consuming public directly. It has an Online Auction facility. It has been developed in Struts 2 and Hibernate Framework.

SSIT, Nagpur, India	August 2017 – April 2018
Java Developer

Client/Project: ADWPMT (Advance Doctor Web Portal and Management Tool)

Product: Hospital Management
Technologies: Java 1.6, Swing, Mysql database
Experience: This was a web based application for Hospital. It allows users to request Appointment Request and It also takes Fellowship requests.


Education
RTMNU, Nagpur, India	June 2013 – May 2017
BE, Information Technology

itearesanoPlDls
Gender: Male
Date of Birth: 11/September/1995
Languages Known: English, Hindi, Marathi
Hobbies and Interest: Listening to Music, Bike Riding


I hereby declare that the above mentioned details are true as per my belief and knowledge

Date:
Place:	Dinesh Satpute