 Gopi Krishna Mutyala		                            Email:  gkmutyala.dev@gmail.com 
 Senior Software Engineer                                         Mobile: +91 8446024696

Carrier Objective:

Creative and dedicated Java Developer seeking a challenging career in a fast-paced technology implementing company, where my intense potential and capabilities can be rendered in handling various responsibilities in bringing out a successful project thereby bringing out laurels to the team as well as to the company as a whole.

Professional Summary


13+ Years of Software development experience in designing, developing, and testing JAVA and J2EE technologies.
Experience in Business Analysis, Requirement Analysis and documentation
Capable of developing applications using J2EE, REST APIs with Spring, Jersey, Struts and database designing.
Experience in developing applications using Springboot, Microservices, Spring Cloud and Spring Data. 
Experience on Spring Batch for downloading files from sftp servers, processing and loading data
Experience on Hibernate, MyBatis and Spring Data JPA ORM frameworks
Experience on using AWS services like EC2, S3, RDS, Elastic Beanstalk, SSM, SQS, SNS, API Gateway, IAM, Cognito
Experience on Rabbit MQ and Kafka configurations, publishing and consuming for web service asynchronous calls.
Experience on designing and generating reports using Jasper Studio and Jasper Server
Knowledge on Spark Framework and generating reports using this framework.
Thorough experience in working with databases like SQL Server 2005&2008, My SQL 8+, Oracle 11g and Informix with comprehensive knowledge in preparing Queries.
Excellent hands on experience with XML, HTML, JQuery, CSS, AngularJS and Java Script.
Proficient in Maven, Log4J, SLF4J, and modern logging frameworks
Experience in Unit testing using Junit, Mockito.
Implemented CI/CD pipelines for automated builds and deployments using Jenkins and Docker
Expertise in using various IDEs like Eclipse, MyEclipse, Intellij and WSAD etc
Expertise in using Tomcat Web server, JBoss application server and Web Sphere application server.
Possess good communication, interpersonal and problem solving skills.
Adaptive to any type of work and had zeal to learn new technologies.

EDUCATION

Bachelor’s degree, from Andhra University, Andhrapradesh, India.
 
Technical Expertise:



Accomplished Experience:
	
I had worked for MouriTech Pvt Ltd, Visakhapatnam from March 2021 to April 2025. 
I had worked for Satsyil IT Solutions India Private Ltd, Vishakhapatnam from January 2016 to March 2021.
I had worked for the client location Sears Holdings Corporation, Pune on the Payroll of Tech Mahindra, Pune since July 2012 to January 2016.
I had worked for Tech Mahindra, Pune on Payroll of Prithvi Technologies, Hyderabad since November 2011 to June 2012. 



Project profiles:	

Trinet Mobile
	                      
Client	: Trinet
Environment	: Java, Spring Boot, Microservices, AWS , Oracle, Kafka, Rabbit MQ, Redis Cache, Maven, Tomcat
Domain                                 : HRMS
Role                                       : Senior BE Developer
Team Size                            : 12
Duration	: From March 2021  to April 2025

Project Description: This project is mainly for payroll and HR services for corporate customers. It is for both B2B, B2C and this project is to enable the end users and corporate to access complete HR portal. This project will show all the benefits for respective employees. It will allow access to do clock-in/clock-out and many more HR and payroll services in single mobile applications
Roles & Responsibilities:
Participated in requirement analysis, design, and development for microservices implementation.
Designed and developed RESTful microservices using Spring Boot, adhering to Microservice Architecture principles.
Implemented AWS SSM Parameter Store for secure management of application secrets
Implemented proxy code where it will work as integration between two services with yaml configuration.
Configured push notifications for the entire organization and the respective users as well.
Involved in Continuous Integration and Continuous development. Used Jenkins for build and deployments. 
To have daily SCRUM meeting for progress reporting, bi-weekly sprints, sprint planning and retrospective.
Participated in the technical code reviews, prepared unit test cases, detailed time estimation and impact analysis. 
Involved in Test Driven Development by writing Junit test cases.
Responsible for Analyzing the requirement and coming up with the solution
Led and managed a development team, handling issue tracking, solution implementation, change requests, and follow-ups to resolve application issues.



SurveyCompass
	                      
Client	: Binary Fountain
Environment	: Java, Spring Boot, Microservices, Spring Eureka Cloud, MySql, Mybatis, SonarQube, Kafka, Rabbit MQ, AWS, Jasper, Apache Spark, Redis Cache, JSON, Maven, Gradle, Tomcat
Domain                                : Health Care
Role                                      : Senior Developer
Team Size                            : 4
Duration	: From January 2016  to Till date

Project Description: Survey Compass application extracts and process the survey responses from third party like PressGaney, Email Campaign Surveys and also from in-house sources like Binaryfountain Surveys, converts the Survey responses in to reviews and ratings. BF (or) Client users can access the application depending on their role. Application will allow user to select multiple sources for a given client. Response displayed is either by Provider/Location level as hierarchy. End user can cleanse the survey responses (comments) with PHI and Profanity information. Depending on their permissions end user can edit/ approve/reject a response. Approved survey responses will be available in the Binaryfountain API so that Binaryfountain partners can use this API in order to publish on the physician directory pages.
Roles & Responsibilities:

Requirement gathering, analysis, design, distribute and development and unit testing
Involved in project architecture setup with Spring, Jersey, maven, Spring batch, MyBatis and Oauth. Implemented authentication and authorization flows.
Implemented AWS SSM Parameter Store for secure storage and retrieval of application secrets and configurations, removing hardcoded credentials.
Designed and implemented S3-based storage solutions for file uploads, backups, and static content delivery.
Implemented annotation based audit log mechanism
Involved in database design for the project
Implemented report generation functionality with Jasper Studio, Jasper Server & Spark
Involved in Rabbit MQ configurations, publishing and consuming messages
involved in report migration from Jasper to MSTR
Wrote database scripts to copy data from one product to another product 
Migrated application from Spring to Spring Boot
Regular conference calls and email communications with the client.
Communicating with management about daily status




AIMS 	                      
Client	: Sears Holdings Corporation
Environment	: Java, Spring 3.0, Spring Batch, Hibernate, Oracle, Apache CXF Restful Web Services, MySql, Informix, JSP, Servlets, JSON, JQuery, Java script, HTML
Domain                                 : Retail
Role                                       : Fullstack Developer
Duration	: From Jan 2013 to Dec 2015

Project Description: AIMS stands for Advanced Inventory Management System. Sears Holding Corporation has 5 Parts Distribution Center and Advance Inventory Management System (AIMS) allow PDC to function as an integrated inventory unit. It has ability to intelligently sort, group and manipulate the flow of orders. It also implements truck stock inventory management which provides visibility of inventory at truck and district office level. Integration of reverse flow with inventory management to have return visibility and tracking is another purpose of this application. Also AIMS manages Replenishment of parts, parts availability, part order (internal/vendor), pricing, accounting, shipping, return order, warehouse tax reporting, technician technical profile, technician mapping etc.
Roles & Responsibilities:

Requirement gathering, analysis, design, development and unit testing
Implemented annotation based audit log mechanism
Involved in database design for the project
Implemented several spring batch jobs in order to manage inventory, orders, replenishments, shipping, returns, and tax reporting
Developed visibility and reporting dashboards for SHC Home Delivery operations.
Regular conference calls and email communications with the client.
Communicating with management about daily status


HOME SERVICES GAMEON 	                      
Client	: Sears Holdings Corporation
Environment	: Java, Hibernate 3.3, Struts 2.1, Spring 3.0, Spring Batch, JSP, Servlets, JSON, JQuery, Java script, HTML, Informix, Windows 2000
Domain                                 : Retail
Role                                       : Fullstack Developer
Duration	: From Nov 2011 to Jan 2013

Project Description: The Home Services Game On integration project has two main objectives are providing visibility to the SHC User of Home Delivery’s operational metrics from a Nation, Region, District, delivery unit, and Carrier level and enable the capability to present to the SHC User Home Delivery’s metrics down to the Driver level
In this project we managing Region profile maintenance, District profile maintenance, Delivery Unit (MDO) profile maintenance, Carrier profile maintenance, Delivery team profile maintenance (owner, driver, helper, LCM), Region, district, unit, carrier support team profile maintenance
Roles & Responsibilities:

Requirement gathering, analysis, design, distribute and development and unit testing
Developed visibility and reporting dashboards for SHC Home Delivery operations.
Implemented annotation based audit log mechanism
Developed front-end application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, backbone.js, and jQuery.
Implemented Spring batch jobs to import the information of Region/Unit/Carrier Profile Management
Regular conference calls and email communications with the client.
Communicating with management about daily status
