GOSWAMI PURNANANDA– (Immediate Joiner)
E-mail: pinaxgoswami@gmail.com| M: +91-9873088811 | Noida, Delhi NCR |https://www.linkedin.com/in/purnananda-goswami/|
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
Results-driven Finance & Accounting professional with over 12 years of experience in global BPO/KPO environments, specializing in end-to-end processes across Order-to-Cash (O2C), Procure-to-Pay (P2P), Accounts Receivable (AR), Accounts Payable (AP) and Financial Planning & Analysis (FP&A). Actively seeking challenging opportunities in Finance & Accounting, Business Services or BPO/KPO operations.

Experienced in working and executing processes across Order Management, Credit Management, Contract Management, B2B/B2C Collections, Global Billing and Invoicing, Cash Application, Bank Reconciliation, Backend Operations, Deductions and Claims & Refunds. Skilled in Dispute Resolution, Escalation Handling, Customer Query Management, Team Leadership, Performance Reviews, and KPI/Dashboard Reporting aligned with SLA metrics.

EDUCATION
Masters in Finance & Business Management (MBA) from University of Bedfordshire, United Kingdom, 2012
Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) from Jamia Hamdard University, New Delhi in 2010
Completed 10th and 12th from AHSEC, Commerce Stream from Assam University
WORK EXPERIENCE
Data Flow, Noida
Associate Manager – Procure-to-Pay (P2P), Account receivables (AR)	Jul 2025 – Dec 2025
Ensure timely and accurate invoice processing and payment execution to support business continuity
Monitor financial transactions in accounts payable and accounts receivable to ensure compliance with policies and regulations
Resolve billing discrepancies, client invoice queries and payment related queries
Reduced outstanding debt by 22% through proactive follow-ups and payment collection plans.
Present financial reports to management, highlighting key insights and recommendations. Collaborate with cross-functional teams to resolve financial queries
Entering of all creditor invoices, facilitating the payment approvals process and coordinating the periodical payment cycle.
Skills
Credit Management	∙	Query / Dispute Resolution	∙	Payment Processing
Payment Reconciliation	∙	Invoice Validation	∙	Bad Debt w/o

Elevate, Gurgaon
Finance Specialist, Procure-to-Pay (P2P), AP, Expense Reporting	Jan 2025 – May 2025
Oversaw end-to-end Accounts Payable (AP) lifecycle: invoice processing, vendor management, 3-way matching, duplicate payment verification and payment reconciliation.
Improved TAT by ~15% by streamlining invoice approval workflows and expense approvals.
Led SOP standardization and internal audits for vendor payments and expense reimbursements.
Collaborated with stakeholders to track KPIs, SLAs, and drive process improvements.
Ensuring correct payments to vendors and suppliers. Prioritize processing of urgent/aging unpaid invoices.
Skills
PO / Non-PO invoices	∙	Vendor Payments	∙	Supplier Payment Run
Vendor Reconciliation	∙	Debit / credit notes	∙	3-way & GRN matching

Tech Mahindra (BPS), Noida
Business Consultant – Order To Cash, P2P, FP&A Transformation Team	Nov 2022 – Dec 2023

Managed end-to-end collections and cash apps to reduce DSO, improve cash flow, and minimize bad debt.
Analyzed AR aging reports and executed collection strategies across global regions in collaboration with AR/AP, Sales, and Customer Service.
Tracked key AR metrics: collection effectiveness, promise-to-pay ratios, contact rate, and resolution timelines.
Track and drive the execution of standard operating procedures, best practices, benchmarking including standardization.
Supported F&A transformation initiatives across O2C and P2P cycles, focusing on automation, working capital optimization and process improvements.
Drove collection strategies reducing Day Sales outstanding (DSO) by 14% YoY and improved (DPO) by 8%
Ensured compliance with global SOPs and internal controls; implemented process improvements to align with best practices.
Prepare Business Proposals and PPT presentation with best possible solutions for clients with As-Is & To-Be process documents. Showcasing the capabilities, Art of Possible, Value Propositions and IT solutions.

Skills
Financial Reporting	∙	Process Transition/ Migration	∙	Reporting and Analytics
Process Automation
Aging Analysis
Process analysis & redesign
Process Documents / SOP
Process Flow charts
Finance Shared Services


Genpact, (Client: Coca-Cola), Noida
Assistant Manager – OTC, Accounts Receivable, B2B Collections	Mar 2020 – Nov 2022

Oversaw AR operations, billing, B2B collection, cash application, bad debt write off and dispute resolution.
Handled team of 18 members, providing leadership and direction to credit collection activities for portfolio valued over USD 2.4 Billion.
Reduced DSO by 15% through SAP automation and optimized cash application process.
Performed accurate cash application: bank-to-ledger posting, reconciliations, settlements, credit card, wire, cheque payment processing, claims and refunds, and inter-account transfers.
Collected $70M/month in aged receivables using targeted debt recovery plans and reducing DSO.
Improved AR accuracy by 20% by reconciling ERP data and reducing unapplied cash.
Built customer-specific dashboards for stakeholders and senior leadership.
Published AR dashboards and reports: aged debt analysis, top aged bucket accounts, broker performance, bad debt exposure, and suspense account status.

Skills
Operational Excellence	∙	Payment Follow-up	∙	Bad debt recovery
Credit / Debt Collection	∙	Cash Flow Forecasting	∙	Cash Application
Attention to Detail	∙	Day Sales outstanding (DSO)	∙	Payment Collection

EXL Services, (Client: Zurich Insurance), Noida
Assistant Manager – OTC, B2B/B2C Collections, Cash Application	Oct 2017 - Mar 2020

Managed end-to-end debt collection for overdue insurance premiums through strategic email and calls. Sent periodic broker statements (monthly/quarterly) to support account reconciliation and improve recovery rates.
Responsible for maintaining ledgers, credit balances & resolving account irregularities on outstanding dues.
Automated payment reconciliation processes leading to 25% efficiency gain and reducing unapplied cash.
Initiating collection follow-ups with customers by sharing account statement and ageing report, collecting the dues as per contractual payment terms (aged 30, 60 and 90+ days)
Collected $70millions month as per broker portfolios namely AON/MARSH and applying the cash in SAP ERP.
Downloaded HSBC and Lloyds bank statements, identified and investigated unidentified payments in multiple currencies, cash allocated and reconciled them against corresponding customer accounts
Handled team size of 10 persons, allocated and distributed work for timely execution.
Skills
Bank Reconciliation	∙	Cash Allocation / Cash apps	∙	Accounts Receivable
Write-offs & Settlements
Credit Control
Negotiate Payment terms
Revenue Recognition
KPI / SLA reporting
Identify Unapplied Cash


Integreon Managed Solutions, Noida
Finance Specialist, OTC / P2P, Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payables	Sept 2012 - Oct 2017
Hands-on experience on both Order-to-Cash (O2C) and Procure-to-Pay (P2P) functions, including invoicing, collections, cash application, vendor invoice processing, payment run, and account reconciliation.
Invoicing, proforma billing for Client, raising credit notes (Reversing & re-issuing Invoices) bad debt write off.
Worked in close association with AR, AP & payment teams, delivering financial billing targets.
Understanding of billing procedures: billing process including data entry, invoicing, resolving disputed charges, and updating customer accounts.
Handled client escalations and query resolution and facilitated month end closings for Account receivables.
Partnered with Credit, Billing, and Contracts teams to resolve payment delays and billing discrepancies.
End-to-End knowledge of the Accounts Payable Process - Vendor Maintenance, Invoice processing, Payment verification, 3 way matching and payment processing.
Monitor & PO and Vendor payments of supplier accounts for non-payments, delayed payments, and other irregularities.

Skills
Billing & Invoicing	∙	Analytical Skill	∙	Master Data management
Query Resolution	∙	Proforma Billing	∙	MIS reporting / Audit
Customer Service	∙	Month end close	∙	Financial Analysis

Royal Mail, London, United Kingdom
General Assistant– Customer Operations, Accounts receivable, O2C	May 2011 - Mar 2012

Assisted in customer invoicing / billing and performing reconciliations for customer accounts.
Provided mailbox support and data reports using Excel dashboards.
Downloading bank statements & locating payments and allocating funds/Reconciling the payments.

Skills
Customer / Client Relationship	∙	Invoice Processing	∙	Payment Collection
Master Data management
Communication Skills
Payment Posting
Problem Solving
Customer Relationship
ACH / Wire transfers



Technical – IT Skills
Tools - Citrix Environment, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Dynamics 365, Paperless Proforma, E-billing, Get paid, Blackline, Jira, Confluence, CRM and Sales Force etc.

ERP – SAP, JD Edwards, SAP S/4 Hana, Oracle Fusion, Net Suite

Certifications - Lean Six Sigma Green Belt & SAP Fico Module for O2C and P2P.

Personal Information -
Languages Known - English, Hindi and Bengali

Present Address – Wave city, Dream Homes society, Noida – Ghaziabad - NH 24, UP – 201301 (NCR)