GGoosswwaammii Rishi , CAMS
C O N T A C T W O R K E X P E R I E N C E
Ernst & Young, Dubai (Jan 2025 till date)
+919509446937
Manager (KYC & AML)
Rishigoswami0301@gmail.com · Directed project management for KYC operations in the UAE, ensuring
compliance with local banking regulations and standards set by the Central
Dubai/UAE Bank of the UAE.
· Recently worked with one of the UAE's major banks, where I managed a team
https://www.linkedin.com/in/rishi-
of 200 people and successfully delivered the project.
goswami-277605b7
· Developed and presented comprehensive MIS reports.
· Evaluated and documented the approval or rejection of compliance cases,
C A R E E R S Y N O P S I S
providing detailed feedback and recommendations for process enhancements.
With 14+ years of professional experience, I specialize · Collaborated with the compliance team to analyze case outcomes, identify
in project management, operational transformation, trends, and implement preventive measures to reduce future rejections.
and leading teams of 20 to 40 members across the
· Proposed ideas for automating processes to enhance efficiency in current
MENA region. My 5.5 years in project management
operations.
have been marked by effective forecasting and
shrinkage control, contributing to significant
Ernst & Young, Bangalore (December 2021 till Jan 2025)
efficiency gains, and I've also worked in the 3rd line
Manager (KYC & AML)
of defense.
· Directed project management for KYC operations in compliance with banking
standards set by the Central Bank of the UAE (CBUAE), ensuring adherence to
My background includes KYC checks, audits, and
local regulations.
ensuring compliance with regulators like the CBUAE,
· Operational transformation across KYC, Screening, and AML processes,
OCC, FCA, BaFin. I excel in due diligence, adapting to
aligning with CBUAE guidelines to enhance efficiency and compliance
the unique risks of clients in the UAE, US, UK, and DE.
My expertise also covers verifying client data from · Developed and presented comprehensive Management Information System
sources such as Lexis Nexis and Bankers Almanac. (MIS) reports that reflect CBUAE KYC requirements and operational metrics.
· Fostered client and team interactions for optimal service delivery, ensuring
I am committed to driving strategic growth and that all KYC procedures meet the expectations of the CBUAE.
maintaining regulatory standards through my · Leveraged 12+ years in banking and consulting, focusing on KYC and
Transaction Monitoring, with a strong emphasis on compliance with CBUAE
experience in operational transformation and project
regulations.
execution.
C O R E E X E R T I S E Oaknorth Bank, Gurugram (June 2021 till December 2021)
Senior Associate (Onboarding)
Job Roles & Responsibility:

AML Risk Assessment, Training & Governance
· Perform loan booking operations in line with UK banking norms (KYC/Due

Fraud Risk Analysis
diligence/AML).

Financial Crime Compliance
· Perform in life loan management activities within the available systems

SME, KYC Remediation and Team Management
pertaining to Syndication, Agency, Bilateral Loan operations.

People Management, Training & development
· Review Legal documents in terms of completeness and plausibility andReview

Reporting and Quality Management & sign-off on legal documents

Client On-boarding · Manage Payment operations toprocess payments to external parties
S K I L L S & C O M P E T E N C I E S · Query and task management by Loan and customer type.
Business and Entrepreneurial skills: UBS, Hyderabad (May 2019 till June 2021)
KYC Authorized officer (Manage team of 12 members)

Strong command of business and management
Job Roles & Responsibility:
principles, resource allocation, production
methods, and leading others. · Lead the team on matters related to AML, KYC, working with the Front-line

Initiator and problem- solver using creativity, Origination Units to ensure all new clients are on-boarded correctly.
resourcefulness and assets to break down and · Ensure team performs active due diligence on clients, conducts quality
overcome organizational obstacles
assurance of customer AML KYC profiles of all risk ratings prepared by Front
line Origination Units.
· Focus on the assurance of quality and consistency in Client Due Diligence
standards and achieving targets within stipulated timeframe across adoption
locations.
Interpersonal and communication skills: Client Identification:

Attentive listener and believe in participative · Facilitating the review of the overall AML Compliance program including risk
decision making. analysis, periodic high risk account reviews, quality assurance reviews, and

Soft and hard skill training provide data on key performance indicators.
 Motivated team player with excellent public · Performing QA testing of KYC files, documenting any deficiencies/findings, and
speaking ability and communication discussing these deficiencies/findings with AML Compliance Management;
identified during QA testing.
A C H I E V E M E N T S
· Providing support in coordinating/responding for requests for information for
 Internal Audit, Regulators and Law Enforcement as part of audits, examinations
Got the Award of Best Quality Performer of
and investigations.
Month in April & June’12.

Got the Award of Significant Contributor of DBOI Global Services Private Limited, Jaipur (July 2013 till September 2016)
the Month November 12. Process Analyst

Core member of Back Office Case Resolution Job Roles & Responsibility:
Team.
· Review and adhere to DB Global KYC Policy & AML policies & procedure;
· Review completeness of a client's KYC (Know Your Customers) i.e.
P R O F E S S I O N A L Q U A L I F I C A T I O N S
documentation/information and identifying missing
documentation/information that needs to be obtained.
Master in Business Administration (Pursuing)from
· Ensured compliance with all regulatory requirements, including Anti Money
NMIMS(Specialization: International Trade
Laundering (AML) regulations such as USA PATRIOT ACT, BSA, FATCA, FCPA,
Management) OFAC Sanctions etc.,
· Performing AML screening searches
Bachelor in Commerce(2013)from Rajasthan
· Performing QA (internal QC & 6 eye checks)
University
· To ensure KYC reviews are in accordance with all the prevailing regulatory
guidelines, i.e. USA Patriot Act, 3rd EU MLD, MIFID Classification, and Deutsche
E D U C A T I O N A L Q U A L I F I C A T I O N S
Bank’s internal AML policies. Also, to ensure completion of pipeline on time and
with the highest standards of quality.
Intermediate (2009)from S.A.P.S School
Matriculation (2006)from S.A.P.S School Teleperformance, Jaipur (September 2011 till July 2013)
Assistant Manager Call Center
C E R T I F I C A T I O N S Core Responsibilities:
· Coaching, Team Meetings and giving feedback to enhance Customer
Certificate in effective communications and human experience.
· Call Monitoring / Customer complaint resolution / Team Building Activities.
relation, High impact presentation by Dale Carnegie
· Handling Backend activity of a leading E-Commerce Company.
& Associates, Inc