Hemanth B M
□ʌ'□aYV hemanthharsha27@gmail.com |Q +91 7349503435| i_†˙ Bengaluru, Karnataka

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:
Motivated and detail-oriented Frontend Developer with 1 year 10 months of hands-on experience in building scalable web applications. Proficient in both front-end and back-end technologies, with a strong passion for creating efficient, user-friendly digital solutions.

WORK EXPERIENCE:
Aviac Technologies:
Frontend Developer:	Dec-2023 - Present
Developed responsive and user-friendly web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES6+), React.js/Angular/React three fiber/Three.js.
Collaborated with UI/UX designers to implement pixel-perfect designs and ensure a seamless user experience.
Integrated RESTful APIs to fetch and display dynamic data efficiently.
Collaborated with backend developers to design efficient API contracts and improve data flow.
Developed the Android and IOS application using Ionic framework (Angular).
Implemented authentication & authorization (JWT, OAuth, Firebase Auth).
Worked with database (MongoDB: NoSQL).

EDUCATION
Seshadripuram college
BCA, Computer Science and Application	Mar 2020 – Mar 2023

PROJECTS

Aviac Dashboard
Role: Frontend Developer & API Integration
Developed a user-facing dashboard for a product-based company, allowing users to sign up, log in, upload aerial images, and perform AI-based analytics on the uploaded data.
Integrated REST APIs to connect frontend with backend services.
Collaborated with the AI/ML team to display processed data results seamlessly on the dashboard.
Technologies used: Angular, Django, Python, Azure.
Blitzzz
Role: Frontend Developer
Contributed to the development of both the mobile app and dashboard for Blitzzz, a platform providing EV charging station solutions for apartments and private homes.
Enabled users to locate, book, and use nearby EV charging stations — similar to a "petrol bunk" but for electric vehicles.
Built and integrated front-end interfaces and backend services to ensure seamless user experience.
Technologies used for website - MEAN Stack (MongoDB, Express.js, Angular, Node.js).
Technologies used for application – Ionic framework , MongoDB, Express.js, Node.js.

SKILLS

Frontend: HTML/CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript
Backend: Node.js
Frameworks: React JS, Angular, React Native, Ionic.