
 
Profile Synopsis 
 
Dynamic Product Owner and Business Analyst with 11 years of experience managing complete product lifecycles across Core Banking, Retail Banking & Digital Banking specializing in Onboarding, Deposits, Cards & Payments, Teller, Retail Loan, KYC/AML.  Skilled in backlog prioritization, stakeholder management, documentation, and testing. Recognized for driving digital transformation initiatives, successfully launching innovative products, and delivering customer-focused solutions within Agile frameworks for top-tier organizations. 
 

 
 	Work Experience 
 
Job Title: Product Owner 
Company Name: Fidelity Information Services India Pvt. Ltd 
Employment Date: Nov 2021- Dec 2025 
Led complete product development lifecycle for core banking and digital banking solutions, serving 400+ clients. Spearheaded design and delivery of product features and enhancements that boosted customer adoption and usage by 45%. 
 
Handled products such as deposits, customer onboarding, cards processing (authorization and settlement) and card & wallet payments, retail loans and digital banking application transformation (mobile app)
Led a cross-functional Scrum team of 15+ including developers and QA engineers to deliver high-quality features on schedule 
Collaborated with internal and external stakeholders, including Product Managers, to define product vision, set OKRs, and manage product backlog and prioritization.
Conducted requirement gathering, gap analysis, writing user story, acceptance criteria and test scenarios, and perform functional testing to ensuring seamless agile workflows.
Prepared and maintained key document as Product Requirement Document (PRDs) and Functional Release Notes (FRNs), test completion reports, client bulleting and user guide to support smooth deployment cycles.
Facilitated client discussions to triage and prioritize defects, ensuring timely resolution and improved product stability.
Tracked product performance and identified new opportunities for improvement  

Job Title: Senior Business Analyst 
Company Name: Accenture Solutions Pvt. Ltd 
Employment Date: Aug 2016 - Nov 2021 
Spearheaded product integration for one of the top players of Europe region.  
Handled core product implementation such as client onboarding, deposits, teller remittance, cards, including authorisation, settlement and payments, and KYC/AML. 
Played a crucial role in the migration of legacy systems to a modern core banking platform, which led to an operational cost reduction of 15% through streamlining processes.
Served as the primary liaison between business, development teams, ensuring clarity of requirements for Implementation. Conducted requirement discovery and analysis with stakeholder and created key document such as Business Requirements Documents (BRDs).
Conducted grooming session, created user stories, acceptance criteria and test scenario for development teams and participated in user acceptance testing (UAT) to validate solutions.
Prepared and maintained release documentation including Functional Release Notes (FRNs) and test completion reports to support smooth deployment cycles.	 

Job Title: Customer Relationship Manager 
Company Name: Akshaya Wealth Management Pvt Ltd. 
Employment Date: Dec 2014- Aug 2016 
 
Managed loan processing operations while deputed to a leading Indian bank, overseeing the entire loan lifecycle, including origination, profile and credit checks, disbursement, repayment, remittance, and RTGS. 
Undertook underwriting and judgmental credit decision-making for mortgages, catering to both Indian and NRI customers. 
Ensured fraud prevention and revenue protection across branch operations while adhering to KYC and AML norms and regulations. 
Addressed customer service requests, including repayment and pre-closure, through the Single One View platform. 
Conducted internal and external audits, self-audits, and ensured compliance with regulatory and administrative standards. 
 

SAFe® PMPO – 4 & 5 
Certificate in Product Ownership Analysis (IIBA-CPOA) facilitate by Pluralsight 
KYC/AML from Institute of Banking Personnel Selection 
 
                                                                  Achievements 
Quarter Star Award- 3 times 
Highest Ops. Efficiency Score for implement complex Card Payment feature 
Recognized for Stakeholder Management 
Recognized from External Stakeholder 
Recognized for Successful Migration and Digital Transformation Project 
 

Personal Information 
DOB: Aug 1987 
Nationality: Indian 
Marital Status: Married 
Place: Bangalore, India 

I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.  
 	Date: 