K Sreenivasulu
Synopsis: ETL Pipeline, Data warehouse, Big data testing and Data base testing –
Having 7+ years of total working Experience in Insurance, Banking and Healthcare
domain- Having experience in manual testing
E-mail:sreenu777111@gmail.com MOB: +919963025349
EXPERIENCE SUMMARY
➢ Having Work experience in Big Data-Hadoop Testing Technology Stack like
HDFS, Hive, HBase and Sqoop, ETL Testing, and Database Testing.
Areas of Experience
➢ Involving in Functional Testing & Regression Testing and Data quality testing
➢ Involving in writing SQL queries and Database Checkpoints to verify data
Industries
quality and calculations, reviews
Insurance, Banking
➢ Performed data validation testing writing SQL queries and Healthcare
➢ Extensively worked with concepts of SQL like joins, Set operators
RDBMS
➢ Good experience in Data warehousing concepts.
Oracle, HIVE, Impala,
➢ Supported the extraction, transformation, and load process (ETL DataStage) for SQL ,AWS Synapse,
Snowflake,Databricks,P
a Data Warehouse from their legacy systems using DataStage.
pyspark .
➢ Strong knowledge in software development life cycle (SDLC), software testing
Utility Tools
life cycle. (STLC), Bug /Defect life cycle, Defect tracking and management.
DataStage, ADF, TOAD,
➢ Familiar with SQL, BI tools, agile methodologies, and oracle data base. SQL developer, Python,
DBeaver,SSMS,MYSQL
➢ Having good knowledge of sql programs, procedure, function, and package.
➢ Good knowledge in Data warehouse.
Operating Systems
➢ Aware about Data warehouse models like star schema, snowflake schema. Windows, UNIX
➢ Good knowledge in dimensions like SCD-1, SCD-2, SCD-3 and Fact table.
FTP
➢ Good knowledge in normalization and de-normalization concept. Putty, WinSCP
➢ Expert knowledge in preparing test cases and test scenarios to test the business
Defect Tracking Tools
requirement. JIRA, HPAML, TFS
➢ Expertise in defect tracking tools like JIRA.
➢ Good knowledge in manual testing.
➢ Knowledge in Analysis of Bug Severity, Bug tracking system and Bug Reporting.
Page 1 of 5
K Sreenivasulu
QUALIFICATION
M.B.A(Sri Venkateshwara university)
BSc (Computers) from Sri Venkateshwara university
WORK EXPERIENCE
➢ Worked as Software Engineer in UST Global Information technology, from Oct 2024 to still date.
➢ Working as System analyst in Hexaware, Chennai from Jan 2021 to Oct 2024.
➢ Worked as Senior QA Engineer in Quikr India Private LTD, Bangalore from Jun 2018 to April 2020.
Project Details
Project#4
Title : Data Origination Hub
Client : First Citizens Bank
Domain : Banking
Role : Data Engineer/QA Test Engineer
Period : Oct 2024 to Till
Environment : SSMS, MY SQL, Netezza, DataStage.
Tools/Techniques : ETL, IICS, Snowflake, Python, S3,ADF.
Team Size: :8
Description:
First Citizens Bank is a top 20 U.S. financial institution with over $200 billion in assets,
headquartered in Raleigh, NC. It offers a wide range of banking services, including personal and
commercial banking, and is part of the larger financial holding company, First Citizens
Bancshares, Inc. The bank was founded in 1898 and operates over 550 branches across the
United States.
Responsibilities:
• Attend sprint Planning meeting with the Developers, Product owner and scrum master to
understand scope of the user stories and to mitigate the risks involved in completing the tasks.
• To Understand the detailed design, business requirement, Source to Target mapping document.
• Attend Daily stand-up meeting with the Developers, BA and scrum master, to discuss about the
status of the user stories.
• Understanding the transformation rules in mapping documents as per client requirements.
• Writing the test strategy and test plan document as per clint requirement.
• Writing test cases based on Functional specs and business requirement documents.
Page 2 of 5
K Sreenivasulu
• Execution of Test Cases and reporting the bugs through defect tracking tool.
• Validated data in Target database according to business rules
• Prepared SQL queries to validate the ETL processed data in target database.
• Validating the SCD-1 and SCD 2 type validation.
• Verifying the column mapping between source and target databases
• Providing UAT support, handling defect triage call and conducting root cause analysis.
• Preparing test data and validating test data
• Mapping sheet analysis.
• Analysis of test results and logging defects.
Project#3
Title : TMK_VBS_EBM_H&I
Client : Trustmark
Domain : Health care
Role : QA Test Engineer
Period : Jan 2022 to Oct 2024
Environment : SSMS, MY SQL, WINSQL
Tools/Techniques : ETL, Azure ADF, Azure Synapse,Python,Pyspark
Team Size: :12
Description:
Trustmark Voluntary Benefits offers Life, Accident, Critical Illness, Disability, and Hospital
insurance solutions that help policyholders achieve greater financial security and well-being. For more than
100 years, Trustmark been building a different kind of benefits company, and going beyond the needs of our
customers. Trustmark offers employee benefits that help businesses and employees
thrive. Trustmark's solutions enhance wellbeing and provide greater financial.
Responsibilities:
• Attend sprint Planning meeting with the Developers, Product owner and scrum master to understand
scope of the user stories and to mitigate the risks involved in completing the tasks.
• To Understand the detailed design, business requirement, Source to Target mapping document.
• Attend Daily stand-up meeting with the Developers, BA and scrum master, to discuss about the status
of the user stories.
• Understanding the transformation rules in mapping documents as per client requirements.
• Writing the test strategy and test plan document as per clint requirement.
• Writing the test cases based on Functional specs and business requirement documents.
• Execution of Test Cases and reporting the bugs through defect tracking tool.
• Validated data in Target database according to business rules
• Prepared SQL queries to validate the ETL processed data in target database.
Page 3 of 5
K Sreenivasulu
• Validating the SCD-1 and SCD 2 type validation.
• Verifying the column mapping between source and target databases
• Providing UAT support, handling defect triage call and conducting root cause analysis.
• Preparing test data and validate test data
• Mapping sheet analysis.
• Analysis of test results and logging defect.
• Uploading test cases & Results in Tracker.
• Defect logging in Tracker
Project#2
Title : Argus_Data_ Infrastructure_FPP_H&I
Client : Verisk
Domain : Banking
Role : Senior Software Test Engineer
Period : Jan 2021 to Jan 2022
Environment : AWS, Hive, MobaXtream
Tools/Techniques : Big Data QA - Hive 0.12.0.
Team Size: :8
Description:
WiZink is an online Bank, with presence in Spain and Portugal. The Bank offers retail banking
products and services including deposits and savings accounts, credit cards, ATMs, and internet baking
solutions. It maintains the historical and live data in database and generates different reports.
Responsibilities:
• Understanding the transformation rules in mapping documents as per client requirements.
• Writing the test cases based on Functional specs and business requirement documents.
• Execution of Test Cases and reporting the bugs through defect tracking in Excel.
• Validated data in Target database according to business rules
• Prepared SQL queries to validate the ETL processed data in target database.
• Verifying the column mapping between source and target databases
• Preparing test data and validate test data
• Uploading test cases & Results in Tracker.
• Defect logging in Tracker.
Page 4 of 5
K Sreenivasulu
Project 1:
Title : Supply Chain Analysis
Client : Quikr
Domain : Retail
Role : Test Engineer
Period : Jun 2018 to April 2020
Environment : SQL, Manual testing
Tools/Techniques : SQL, Application testing
Team Size: :5
Description:
This project is related to the creation of retail data analytics layer for the analysis of Efficiency and Risks
due to Excess and Shortage of inventories in the supply chain of E-Commerce industries. This also deals
with the calculation of Optimal Inventories for each of the product falling in the supply chain.
Responsibilities:
➢ Understanding the customer requirements.
➢ Designed High level test scenarios and test cases.
➢ Executed test cases in QC.
➢ `Preparing queries to validate the data from system and end to end testing perspective.
➢ To Understand the detailed design, business requirement, Source to Target mapping document.
➢ Preparing inventory details identify the shortage of inventories.
➢ Validated data in Target database according to business rules
➢ Prepared SQL queries and executed to validate the processed data in target database.
➢ Worked closely with Dev team
Page 5 of 5