Saitejesh Kolathur

kolathursaitejeshgmail.com | 6301317191

  

PERSONAL SUMMARY

Having around 5.5 years of experience as a Power Platform Developer, I am currently working as a
Consultant as a Power Platform Developer for WellsFargo. Proficient in designing and implementing
efficient solutions using Power Apps, Power Automate, Power Pages, Copilot Studio, SharePoint, SQL,

Snowfalkes and Dataverse. Strong problem-solving and collaboration aptitude to deliver
high-impact results.

Power Apps
Power Automate
SharePoint
SQL
Snowflake
Power Pages
Power Virtual Agents
Power BI
Copilot Studio

Dataverse

SKILLS

CI/CD Pipelines
Azure DevOps
Custom Connector
PCF
Application Life cycle Management (ALM)

Azure Blob
D365 Tools
Canvas
Model Driven

EXPERIENCE

Consultant
Wells Fargo | Feb 2025-Current

I have created two applications to convert an existing old-fashioned Change Management tools

using Excel to Power Suite technology, which involves PowerApps, Power Automate, and Power
BI and Copilot Studio.

I have created an automated flow that will auto-assign tasks based on their availability.
I have created a data flow that will trigger from SharePoint and store data in Dataverse.
Analyzed LOB needs to recommend appropriate banking solutions and created Agents via Copilot.
Created CI/CD pipelines and also implemented ALM via Managed Environments.

I got Spotlight Award.

Assistant Manager
Genpact | Nov 2023-Jan 2025

Adept at leveraging SharePoint, PowerApps Canvas, and Power Automate to create customized
solutions that meet the unique needs of organizations and also created PCF controls.

Proven ability to diagnose and resolve issues related to Power Automate and Power Apps,

providing timely support to end-users and maintaining system reliability.
Worked with multiple stakeholders from taking the requirement, suggesting the best possible
solution, communicating and discussing the solution, designing & implementing the solution and
deploying the solution into production with using Power Platform technologies.
Developed one powerautomate flow which will check all the fields in Excel containing all the
details of the employees working under which project under VicePresident. So we need to
check where they are aligned to the correct project or not and send out an email if there is any
Mismatch present and also we have 4 other checks in the automation. With this project we have
a time saving of around 2000hrs per year and cost saving of around 40,000 USD.
Developed a Powerapp which uses Snowfalke as backend. We need to add a few details for a
particular record and send it back to the snowflakes along with the existing data. We are
integrating this data into the PowerBI and showcasing the PowerBI dashboard. This Project uses
PowerAutomate to fetch data and save data to snowflakes.
Integrated a Powerapp into PowerBI dashboard which allows a user to add comments to a
particular column in PowerBI and save that data into snowflakes.
Trained two juniors in Powerapps who report to me and make them work on projects by giving
complete guidance and support from start to end.

Application Development Analyst
Accenture | May 2021-Nov 2023

Developed an application where we need to submit a request which requires multiple
approvals for different levels which replaced previous manual process with an overall cost
saving of $700k per year.
Designed and developed a CI/CD pipeline which reduced the effort of doing manual updates
on multiple apps which are in multiple environments.
Developed multiple components which are reusable and easy to develop in future application
requirements.
Developed an application using Gen-Al where we will train Gen-AI with multiple types of data to
respond back to Powerapps with answers.
Developed a Power learning certification application in collaboration with Microsoft which will
train, educate and give instructions to people on how to be certified in a particular power apps
certification.
Created multiple Business Units and providing custom security roles.
Worked on multiple POCs which brought great understanding of the requirements and solution
to the team and client.
Part of the development team of 'POWER TO EVERYONE' app, which is a collaborative app
between Microsoft and Accenture to train people and clear basic certification in a power
platform(PL 900) for which we got into Guinness World Records.
Created multiple Modeldriven apps using dataverse and business process flows.

Software Engineer Trainee

VASA Services | Tirupati | Jan 2020-Feb 2021

I worked with senior developers in building websites and Dashboards.
Build Power BI Dashboard for the team Insights.
Worked with Excel data and built Excel automations.

Maintained social media accounts and posted relevant content to boost business.

BTech: Mechanical Engineering
Sri Venkateshwara University | June 2019

PL-100, Microsoft
PL-900, Microsoft

EDUCATION

CERTIFICATIONS

PROJECTS

Automated Leave Applier, Created a Power Automate flow to automate the process of sending
emails and setting out-of-office replies when taking leave.

