



Karishma Oswal
Software Development Team Lead
 oswalkarishma29@gmail.com  +91 7507332349
 Pune, India
  Karishma Oswal | LinkedIn


 SUMMARY

•​Accomplished Software Development Team Lead with overall 9 years of experience in designing, developing and delivering scalable solutions using Java, Spring Boot, Microservices, PostgreSQL and Kubernetes.
•​Proven leader of cross-functional
teams, with expertise in Agile Scrum, technical mentoring, and high-impact releases.
•​Leveraged GenAI tools like GitHub
Copilot, for AI-assisted coding to boost productivity and code quality.


 SKILLS

 Java 8 , Spring Boot, Microservices
 Oracle, PostgreSQL
 Docker, Kubernetes, OpenShift  System Design, Kafka
 Maven, Git, Jenkins
 BitBucket, Jira, Confluence
 Github Co-pilot, Microsoft 365  Agile Methodology, Scrum
 Team Leadership, Management  AWS/ Azure - Beginner


  PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Software Development Team Lead Amdocs
03/2024 – Present
 Directed a team of 9 software engineers, mentoring them through the full software development lifecycle to ensure high quality deliverables and foster team engagement.
 Collaborated with the Manager to deliver accurate estimations, identify resource needs and assess risks.
 Led and represented the team in cross-functional discussions, building strong relationships with internal stakeholders
 Integrated a CI/CD pipeline for managing 25+ microservices that increased deployment frequency
 Designed scalable microservices leveraging various design patterns to optimize reusability and maintainability.
 Developed REST services for cross-platform integration, ensuring backward compatibility with legacy systems.
 Deployed containerized applications on Kubernetes clusters with automated scaling policies.
 Integrated Apache Kafka to enable asynchronous communication between microservices, improving scalability
 Leveraged Claude Sonnet 4 Agent to automate the writing, execution, and recursive debugging of JUnit tests across an entire module, ensuring 100 % coverage of both positive and negative scenarios.
 Administered code reviews and provided mentorship, enhancing code quality and reducing post-deployment hotfixes by 20%.
 Advocated for agile development practices, elevating team delivery predictability to 100% and project transparency.

Sr. Associate - Projects Cognizant
06/2021 – 03/2024
Client 1 : US Bankcorp
 Designed and configured microservices tailored to specific business functionalities using Spring Boot
 Integrated inter-service communication via RestTemplate to consume APIs from other microservices.
 Authored Liquibase scripts for seamless schema migrations and updates to the SQL database
 Developed an email notification module, enabling automated communication workflows
 Extended and reused existing frameworks, incorporating new features and validating end-to-end flows through UI testing
 Upgraded legacy modules to JDK 17 and Spring Boot 3.0.2, enhancing performance and compatibility
 Participated in technical hiring, conducting interviews for mid- level engineering roles to strengthen team capabilities

Client 2 : VISA






 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

Best Team of the Quarter - FY25
- Q1
Outstanding performance in meeting Sprint goals and exemplary compliance with Agile practices

Agile Practice Enhancement Facilitated 100% on time sprint deliveries by improving Agile Scrum practices

Product Appreciation Appreciated for completing development of features before estimated time with no defects

On The Spot Award Smooth handling of 1200+ infrastructure events through
automations

Special Initiative Award Seamless migration of 40+ deployed use cases from old SNOW version to new SNOW version which has total impact of approx. 350 men hrs.
 Developed RESTful APIs for file configuration and managed secure communication
 Contributed to the implementation of Canary deployments for backend services, enhancing release reliability and minimizing risk
 Resolved security vulnerabilities identified by Checkmarx
 Deployed containerized applications to Kubernetes clusters for scalable delivery

IT Analyst
TATA Consultancy Services
10/2016 – 06/2021
 Developed and deployed the platform configuration module for Digitate using Spring Boot, with Spring Data JPA and Spring Security.
 Built and consumed RESTful microservices with Feign Client, RestTemplate, and Eureka Server for service discovery, configured Swagger for API documentation.
 Led automation initiatives for IT infrastructure (Windows, VMware, Office365), integrating alerts with ServiceNow via REST APIs to streamline incident management and reduce resolution time.


 EDUCATION

Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science North Maharashtra University, Jalgaon
06/2012 – 06/2016
R.C.P. Institute of Technology, Shirpur




 COURSES

Apache Kafka for Developers using SpringBoot Udemy

Advanced Certificate Program in Backend Application Development managed by IIT Roorkee

Agile for Beginners