
                                                                                                                                                                 
   

KRISHNA PRASANNA B R 
brkrishanaprasanna@gmail.com | 7892050348



PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  

Having combined experience in Data Governance, Data Quality, Data Engineering, Data Architect, Data Visualization & Data Analysis including Integration with Generative AI, LLM, RAG Models, Lang chain, Lang graph, Hugging face, Power BI and working as a solution architect to handle team and providing end-to-end Solution based on client requirement and managing the day-to-day activities. 

Demonstrated a strong understanding of the Power BI platform and its functionality to create multiple dashboards that can cater translating and merging complex data from different data sources into visually compelling and user-friendly reports. 
Technical experience with, Python, Devops-Configuration Management, Model Designing & Data Analysis
Implementation of Data Governance Policies and standards
Implement Data Governance Best Practices.
Handling the Security issues and managing the Data Governance issues.
Team management and project management activities.
Designing, Building & Supporting the Components such Database Reports and Building Environments.
Strong analytical skills with the ability to collect, organize, analyze, and disseminate significant amounts of information with attention to detail and accuracy, in a timely manner.
Ability to manage multiple and simultaneous responsibilities and to prioritize scheduling of work
Able to Guide the Team & Organize on Agile-SCRUM best Practices.
Supporting the Self Organizing team & coach the team on self-organization practices
Perform data analysis and facilitate in delivery to all end users.
Supervise all client issues and coordinate with managers and supervisors and facilitate in deliverables.
Supervise process management tools and ensure compliance to all cycle guidelines.
Maintain and escalate issues to lead analyst if required.
Coordinate with customers and staff and provide support to all data analysis.
Perform data analysis on all results and prepare presentations for clients.
Strong verbal and written communication skills.

SKILLS PROFILE  



EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION: 


Master of Science in Information Technology MSc IT KSOU
Bachelor of Computer Application from Bangalore University 


EMPLOYMENT ASSIGNMENTS  

Wipro Limited
Sr.Software Engineer
March 2022 – Dec 2024






Project 1 – EssentialTECH and Essential INNOVATION 
 
 
 


Project 2 – ExxonMobil  & Nestle Data Analysis & Automation
 
 
 

Capgemini Technology Service India Ltd.
Senior Consultant
May 2021 – October 2021


Data Architect Role:
1. Gather business requirements
2. Define business processes
3. Create a conceptual data model
4. Define entities and attributes
5. Identify data sources
6. Establish relationships between entities
7. Physical modelling
8. Normalization and ensuring the integrity of data
9. Maintaining your data model

Freelancer
Jan 2015 – Dec 2020
Real Estate & Product Details Web sites:  Using Web scraping  tools to extract Website data Python, Beautiful Soup
Exporting Website Data to csv files and transfer to SQL database
Handling data engineering and data science projects with AI/ML
Worked on Linux ubuntu and configuring services.
Multi cloud Experience with AZURE & AWS
Data extraction, Analytics & Visualization Power BI
Windows and AD Services for Basic admin Permissions
Removing corrupted data and fixing coding errors and related problems
Developing and maintaining databases, and data systems – reorganizing data in a readable format 
Performing analysis to assess the quality and meaning of data
Software delivery through Agile-CI/CD process.
Filter Data by reviewing reports and performance indicators to identify and correct code problems
Using statistical tools to identify, analyze, and interpret patterns and trends in complex data sets could be helpful for the diagnosis and prediction
Assigning numerical value to essential business functions so that business performance can be assessed and compared over periods of time.
Preparing reports for the management stating trends, patterns, and predictions using relevant data
Working with and management heads to identify process improvement opportunities, propose system modifications, and devise data governance strategies. 
Preparing final analysis reports for the stakeholders to understand the data-analysis steps, enabling them to take important decisions based on various facts and trends. 
