






PROFILE • ABOUT ME



Results-driven and highly skilled Software developer with 7+ years of experience in designing, developing and deploying innovative software solutions.
Adept at collaborating with cross-functional teams to analyze user requirements and deliver high-quality applications with in specified timelines.
Proven ability to adapt quickly to emerging technologies and industry trends.

Proficient in back-end development with hands-on experience in various technologies including Java, Spring Boot, SQL, Microservice.
CAREER HIGHLIGHTS

Collaborated with cross-functional teams to define and implement the functionality, ensuring alignment with business requirements and scalability for future growth.
Successfully managed the end-to-end development of a scalable RESTful API.
Good understanding of micro services architecture.
Good understanding and experience developing end-to-end scalable application.
Excellent communication and teamwork abilities, collaborating effectively with diverse teams and stakeholders to achieve project goals.

WORK EXPERIENCE


L&T Infotech (LTIMindtree)	Nov 2021 – Present
Senior Software Engineer
Pune, India

Project Name: Real Time Credit Service (RTCS) Client: Citi Bank
Project Description
RTCS (Real time credit service), is a low latency real-time credit check service application. It is a part of the trading life cycle that lies in the front office and performs credit checks for various asset classes like FX, Commodity, FI Cash / Bonds, Equities, etc. Built an application on Java in microservice architecture to consume and returned the processed trading data to external clients. Trading data is consumed by Solace consumers, and various regulatory checks are performed by different microservices. RTCS is monitoring platform to perform pre trade credit checks, earmarking and intraday exposure monitoring.
Role & Contribution:
Implements Rest APIs as per the client’s specific requirements and flow.
Responsible for end-to-end development.
Requirement gathered from the business.
Functional and technical analysis of business requirements.
Defect fixing and implementing enhancement requests.

Technology & Tools:
Core Java, Java 8, Spring boot, Spring MVC, Rest API, IntelliJ, Jenkins, Team city, Solace, Tron, Microservice, Couchbase, Swagger, Postman, Git, OpenShift.
 +91 9975146141
 ankitbajaj35@gmail.com  Pune
 www.linkedin.com/in/harsha-laddha/


Technical SKIL

Core Java, Java 8,
Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Micro services
Rest Api, Webservices, JPA
Maven, Gradle
Jenkins, Solace, git
Oracle, Couchbase,Mysql,Hibernate
Eclipse, IntelliJ
Postman, Swagger
Unit Test
Copilot Ai Education
Post Graduate Diploma in Advanced Computing – C-DAC Mumbai (2018)
B.E. (E&TC) – North Maharashtra University (JUNE-2017)


Personal Details

Birth Date: 12 June 1994
Sex: Female
Marital Status: Married
Nationality: Indian
Languages Known: English, Hindi, Marathi Hobbies: Travelling, Reading books Address: B1001 YashOne waked central, Datta mandir road, Pune-411057

Financial Software and System	Sept 2018 – Nov 2021
Software Engineer
Mumbai, India
Project Name: Merchant Acquiring and Payment System Client: Arab Financial Services (AFS), Yes Bank, SBI
Project Description
FSS Merchant is designed to manage all end-to-end requirements of merchant acquirers. Ranging from efficient merchant-on-boarding and management to insightful dynamic report generation and everything in between. It also handles interchange clearing and settlements as well as merchant settlements, thus empowering the acquirers to manage their merchant networks effortlessly.
Merchant Self Service is a separate web interface extended to ‘Merchants/Stores’, to have access to the merchant/store profile, transactions and settlement data. It also enables merchants/stores to place order request for stationery items & raise refund transaction requests. The merchant/stores will be accessing the system online using the unique login credentials provided by the acquirer.
Role & Contribution:
Provide requirements analysis through design, coding, testing, debugging, implementation and integration and full life-cycle support to clients from initial client interaction.
Development of transaction critical codes such as transaction processing and File generation (Visa, MasterCard) etc. Provide ongoing application support and troubleshooting.
Establish, build and manage relationships with corporate partners.
Technology & Tools:
Core Java, Java 8, Spring boot, Spring MVC, Oracle, HTML, CSS, Maven, Tomcat Server.



DECLARATION


I hereby declare that the above-mentioned information is correct up to my knowledge and I bear the responsibility for the correctness of the above- mentioned particulars.


Harsha Laddha