Laxman Malligawad
laxman.m2006@gmail.com 
+91-9620666998


Profile
Full Stack Developer with 14+ years of experience in architecture designing, development, testing and implementing large-scale, complex webbased applications using Java, Spring Boot, GenAI, Microservices, RESTful API
Real time exposure in Security, Payment, Investment Banking, Mobile Banking and SMS Banking domain.
Software analysis, architectural design and development experience in Core Java, Multithreading, Collections, Concurrency packages, Microservices, Kafka, OAuth2, OpenId Connect, Spring Boot Core Security JPA, AWS Lambda, SQS, EKS, S3 API Gateway, VPC, Spring, Webservices, Hibernate, JavaScript, Tomcat, Dynamo DB, Postgres, DB2, Oracle.
Designed and implemented cloud-based integrations using REST APIs.
Responsible for Re-Architecture and Architectural enhancements in the system.
Provided technical leadership to project team to perform design to deployment related activities, provide guidance, perform reviews, prevent and resolve technical issues.

Professional Experience:
Coforge Limited	: Sept 2024 – Till Present
Applied Materials	: Jan 2023 –  Sep 2024
HID Global India	: May 2019 – Jan 2023
NXP India Pvt Ltd	: May 2016 – May 2019
Genpact Headstrong Capital Markets	: Aug 2014 - May 2016
IBM India Pvt Ltd. Bangalore	: Nov 2012 - Aug 2014
Zylog Systems Bangalore	: Nov 2009 - Nov 2012

Technical Profile:
Programming Languages	: JAVA8, Algorithms, Data Structure, Cryptography
Core Java	: Collections, Multithreading, Concurrency package Executor Framework, Schedulers, Nodejs
AWS	: Lambda, API Gateway, EKS Cluster Kubernates, S3, ECR, VPC
Frameworks	: Microservices, Spring Boot, Core, Security, MVC
Messaging Queues	: Kafka, AWS Simple Queue Service
ORM Tool	: Hibernate, Spring JPA
Servers	: AWS EKS Cluster, Kubernetes, EC2, Tomcat
Databases	: Dynamo DB, Oracle, Postgres, DB2
Scripting	: Servlets, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Jquery
Others	: OAuth2, Openid connect

Educational Qualifications:
B.E (Computer Science and Engineering), Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bangalore [Visvesvaraya Technological University].



Description: App bank operation has multiple processes; their primary job is to process the feeds and persist with the data. All the feeds are coming from all over the regions China, India, Europe and US. All the feeds will get processed and verified from the both investment organization and stocks based on the calculation logics with each line of data.

Technologies and Products:
Core Java, OAuth and Openid, Spring boot microservices, Spring Security, AWS (EKS Cluster (Kubernates, ECR, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, VPC), Spring JPA

Roles and responsibilities:
Working on Java, spring boot microservice application supporting OAuth and OpenId for authorization and authentication for the application.
Architecture design, code review and mentoring the development team Development and implementation and release activities. Individual contributor for working on development tasks, resolving the bugs reported, Identify the root cause for the issues which are reported by customers.


Description: ADC is a central server used for Recipe Creation, Runtime Classification & short time monitoring using Advanced Technology. ADC classifies the defects into classes. It has two major modules.
Recipe setup (RS) and Manual classification(MDC).
Using an active recipe that defines the rules for each class. In this process it creates a recipe, assign new rules or existing rules, save it and apply this recipe to defects. In Manual classification use creates the rule classes and applies to the defects.


Technologies and Products:
Java8, Spring boot microservices, AWS (EKS Cluster (Kubernates, ECR, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, VPC), Spring JPA, OAuth2, OpenID Connect, Dynamo DB, Nodejs

Roles and responsibilities:
Worked as Technical Lead to understand the requirements and create the backlog for the agile sprint.
Involved in design, development and implementation and release activities. Individual contributor for working on development tasks, resolving the bugs reported, Identify the root cause for the issues which are reported by customers.
Working on QA automation creates the scenarios for functionalities.


Description: The HID Authentication Service is a multi-tenanted software as a service offering for solving identity and access management problems. Integrating applications can use the Authentication Service for user authentication and for managing the user identity lifecycle and identity information.

The Authentication Service supports open web standards for authentication, federated identity and identity management, including OAuth 2.0, OpenID Connect and the System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM).


Technologies and Products:
Java8, AWS (EKS Cluster(Kubernates, ECR, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, VPC), Spring Boot, Spring JPA, OAuth2, OpenId Connect, Dynamo DB, Nodejs

Roles and responsibilities:
Worked as Technical Lead to understand the requirements and create the backlog for the agile sprint.
Involved in design, development and implementation and release activities. Individual contributor for working on development tasks, resolving the bugs reported, Identify the root cause for the issues which are reported by customer.


Description:
Digitization of payment cards Master and VISA on Mobile or Wearable. Wallet Payment is an application downloaded in mobile and can be added Master or VISA cards in the wallet. Once the cards added in wallet, using the mobile or wearable we can do the payment transactions. Technologies and Products:
Java8, Spring Boot, Spring JPA, OAuth, OpenId Connect, AWS, PostgreSQL,

Roles and responsibilities:
Worked as Technical Lead to understand the requirements and create the backlog for the agile sprint.
Involved in design, development and implementation and release activities. Individual contributor for working on development tasks, resolving the bugs reported, Identify the root cause for the issues which are reported by customer.
Working on QA automation to complete the entire payment card life cycle with the wearable.
`

Description:
Development of a MIFARE Account Validation and Issuance Cloud Solution that is capable of issuing, pre-personalizing and validating a MIFARE IDentity on any MIFARE Account capable media (Smartphone) Technologies and Products:
Java, DropWizard, Bootstrap, PostgreSQL



Description:
It’s a data ware housing project and serves to be the firm’s definitive and golden source of liquidity metrics that serves the term’s crucial needs such as firm’s liquidity risk management/Funding plan, Regulatory liquidity reporting, Treasury/Assets and Liability. Technologies and Products:
Java(Collections, Multithreading, Executor Framework, Concurrency Packages) Spring, Hibernate, DB2,





Description:
Express Scripts holdings company provides a range of pharmacy benefit management (PBM) services primarily in United States and Canada. Pharma portal is a Data Product Portal stores all the authenticated users and also the information about the manufacturers and rebates associated with the user.



Description:
Ducont is the first company in the Middle East to provide Mobile Banking and Mobile Insurance applications. Mobile Banking is Software that allows you to do banking transactions through your mobile phone without making a call, using the SMS / WAP facility. You can check your balance, stop a cheque payment, or even pay your utility bills. Technologies and Products:
Java, Servlets, JSP, J2ME, Struts, IBM Websphere, DB2.



Description:
MRBD is mobile insurance application to provide all the insurance facilities provided by the bank through the mobile phone.
Technologies and Products:
Java, Servlets, JSP, J2ME, Struts, IBM Websphere, DB2.




Description:

Mobile Banking is Software that allows you to do banking transactions through your mobile phone without making a call, using the SMS / WAP facility.

Personal Profile:

Name	: Laxman M
Gender	: Male
Passport	: Available.
Languages	: English, Kannada and Hindi
Address	: Bangalore