Madhumeeta Sahu
Senior Data Engineer
smadumeeta@zohomail.in
  (+91)7760198880
 Bangalore  1992-03-10
 Indian  Married



A dynamic professional with 11 years of corporate experience in Software Development and Architecture, specializing in Data Engineering and Machine Learning projects across BFSI, Brokerage, Pharmaceutical, and Commodity Insight domains. Experienced GenAI Architect for the past 3 years, with hands-on expertise in MCP tool development and deployment on AWS and Azure. Proficient in Databricks, PySpark, and Copilot, with over 4 years of experience delivering scalable and efficient data solutions, and more than 6 years in ETL and database management. Skilled in leading AI innovations, optimizing workflows, and managing client-facing teams to drive successful project delivery.





Generative AI, MCP(Model Context Protocol), LangChain & OpenAI

Azure AI Studio & Copilot

Microsoft Copilot Studio & Power Automate
Jenkins, CI/CD Pipelines

Power BI and Tableau Dashboards

Databricks, AWS, PySpark and Python

Informatica Power Centre

Oracle, Postgresql & Delta Lakes Databases
Unix Scripting

Autosys, TWS, FACT, Airflow DAG
Scheduling Tools


Team Player
Awarded by S&P Global
Star of the Iteration - Multiple times
Awarded by S&P Global
Employee of the Team
Awarded by Capgemini
Received prizes for excellence in sports and cultural activities during school and college.
S&P Global, Hyderabad
Senior Data Engineer
07/2019 – Present | Hyderabad
•​Implemented ADWance Assist AI Chatbot using fine-tuned AI models with Microsoft Co-pilot Studio and Power Automate for 24/7 query support.
•​Deployed Advance Assist API via ECS Workflow,
integrating the chatbot with ADW UI for seamless access to CI Confluence data.
•​Enabled workbench utility to trigger Airflow DAGs and Databricks jobs, automating data workflows.
•​Integrated MCP with AI so the assistant can fetch CI/CD pipeline data, trigger Airflow DAGs, or retrieve Confluence documentation.
•​Implemented and deployed GenAI solutions across
AWS and Azure, utilizing cloud-native services (ECS, Secret Manager and S3) to enable smooth integration, cost optimization, and resilient system performance.
•​Built and optimised NLP/Document processing
pipeline.
•​Led the development of RAG systems, leveraging OpenAI embeddings and FAISS vector stores to enhance chatbot intelligence and contextual accuracy.
•​Designed AI system architecture and led cross-
functional teams, overseeing end-to-end project delivery.
•​Created Databricks notebooks (PySpark scripts) for governance, compliance monitoring, and cost optimization.
•​Developed Power BI dashboards to support data-
driven decision-making and cost management.
•​Implemented CI/CD pipelines and automated workflows using Airflow DAGs.






S&P Global
GenAI Deployment for ADWance Assist Chatbot, Power BI dashboards for Governance & Monitoring, World Oil Supply EUOutages, RIG Dataset Tradevision/PNP/PFDM/ MPM
ZS Associates
Darth-V
BroadRidge Financial Solution ETL Pipelines for Customer Information, Regression Testing Automation Tool, Autosys to TWS migration
CAPGEMINI
ETL Pipeline for Global Zeus, Dashboard Automation for GE Power & Water


Bachelor Of Technology (BTech. In Electronic & Telecommunication) CHATTISGARH SWAMI VIVEKANAND TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY, Bhilai
2009 – 2013 | Bhilai

CBSE — XII (Science Stream) KRISHNA PUBLIC SCHOOL 2009
CBSE - X
KENDRIYA VIDYALAYA 2007


English and Hindi


 SAFe 6.0 POPM
•​Built ETL pipelines for extracting, transforming, and loading data from Salesforce, SFTP, S3, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and files.
•​Developed Perl scripts for S3-to-Snowflake upsert
operations and scheduled end-to-end processes using Autosys, performing administrative tasks.
ZS Associates, Gurgaon
Senior Business Technology Analyst 02/2019 – 06/2019 | Gurgaon
•​Designed data models (Star Schema) for migrating
data from Oracle to Redshift using Informatica BDM.
•​Developed Unix shell scripts to automate data processing and workflow tasks.
Broadridge Financial Solutions, Bangalore
Senior Member Technical 09/2017 – 01/2019 | Bangalore
•​Developed generic Unix shell scripts for automated regression testing in the test environment.
•​Designed ETL processes for executing base and ad-
hoc scenarios and generating HTML reports with scenario results.
•​Automated scenario status notifications via Unix scripts to send emails with attachments to downstream/upstream teams.
•​Experienced with TWS and Mainframe, creating
and managing mainframe jobs corresponding to Autosys workflows.
Capgemini (Former IGATE Global Solution Ltd), Bangalore
Consultant
03/2014 – 08/2017 | Bangalore
•​Designed and implemented ETL processes for loading data into databases, automating workflows using Autosys jobs and Unix shell scripts.
•​Performed data validation, unit testing, and
performance tuning to ensure accuracy and efficiency of data loads.
•​Developed Tableau dashboards and visualizations, creating action filters, parameters, and calculated sets for reporting.
•​Built Tableau workbooks by blending data from
multiple sources for comprehensive business insights.



Dance