Manikanta S

Tech Lead

manikantasharma93@gmail.com 

+91 8500094134 

Hyderabad,India 

PROFILE SUMMARY
A highly skilled and results-driven Senior RPA Developer with over 8.2 years of hands-on experience in 
designing, developing, and implementing RPA solutions using leading automation tools such as Automation 
Anywhere ,UiPath ,Blue Prism and Power Automate Desktop. Adept at analyzing business processes, 
identifying automation opportunities, and delivering scalable, high-performance bots that streamline 
operations and enhance productivity. Proven expertise in end-to-end automation lifecycle, from requirement 
gathering and solution design to deployment and post-production support. 

SKILLS

Automation Anywhere, Power automate Desktop,Uipath
JavaScript,Vbscript, Python
SQL,MS Access, Snowflake
Power Automate desktop and Cloud Flows
Microsoft Azure Admin Fundamentals
GitHub,Jira, Scrum

CERTIFICATES

Automation Anywhere 
Certified Master RPA 
Professional (Version11) 
AAMSTR-23298510
Automation Anywhere 
Certified Master RPA 
Professional (Automate 360) 
AMASTCA360-47187898
Simplify Agent Development 
with Copilot Studio-Proficient

WORK EXPERIENCE
Tech Lead
Wipro

Automation Anywhere 
Certified Advanced RPA 
Professional (Version11) 
AAADVC-20024513
Completed diploma in 
UIPATH RPA developer 
foundation

Automation Anywhere 
Certified Advanced RPA 
Professional (Automate 360) 
AAADVCA360-41281970
MicroSoft Applied Skills Create 
Agent in MS Copilot Studio

2023/11 – present
Hyderabad, India

•Design, develop, and implement complex RPA solutions using leading automation 
tools such as  Automation Anywhere ,UiPath and Power Automate Desktop.
•Collaborate with business analysts and stakeholders to understand requirements 
and translate them into automated processes.
•Build and configure bots, workflows, and automations while ensuring optimal 
performance and error handling.
•Exposure of working on Blue prism to Power automate Migration project.
•Taking business requirements and translating them into efficient and 
maintainable UiPath workflows. This includes considering factors like error 
handling, logging, and performance.
•Choosing the right activities, orchestrators, and integrations based on project 
needs and best practices
•Exposure to perform User Management, licence Management,Roles Management 
activities in Automation anywhere.
•Conduct code reviews, ensuring best practices in RPA development are followed 
and promoting a culture of continuous learning.
•Share technical expertise and provide support to team members across multiple 
RPA projects.

•Collaborate with cross-functional teams, including business users, IT, and 
operations, to ensure alignment on automation objectives and results.

Senior Developer
Cognizant Technology and Solutions

2018/12 – 2023/10
Hyderabad, India

•Participating in daily scrum calls and getting required information.
•Involving in design phase of SDD and other documents for different automations
•Creation of Rule-based Robots, Automating existing Business Process.
•Designing and developing automation workflows (desktop flows) to streamline 
business processes.
•Experienced in handling of Data from different files formats like TEXT, PDF, CSV, 
Excel, and XML.
•Expertise working with Object cloning, Web Recorder, Excel, PGP, Error handling, 
etc.
•Taking business requirements and translating them into efficient and 
maintainable UiPath workflows. This includes considering factors like error 
handling, logging, and performance.
•Choosing the right activities, orchestrators, and integrations based on project 
needs and best practices
•Integrating Power Automate Desktop workflows with external systems, 
applications, databases, and APIs.
•Experience in working with AA commands like Insert Keystrokes and Insert Mouse 
operations.
•Expertise in Reading different Bank invoice files and entering fields into SAP and 
notifying them through email.
•Experienced in analysing & Robotics automation development and also be a part 
of requirement gathering team in facilitating improvement in applications, 
planning and building effective environments
•Exposure to varied fields like Banking, Insurance and Health Care 
Responsibilities:
•Reading attachment from outlook mail and process those values with local excel 
file.
•Development of functionality specific reusable components.
•Creating comprehensive documentation for Power Automate Desktop workflows, 
including design specifications, user guides, and operational procedures.

Software Engineer
Ampcus Tech Private limited

•Having knowledge in analysing information system needs, evaluating end-user 
requirements.
•custom designing solutions, troubleshooting for complex information systems 
management.

•

Software Engineer
Dynpro India Private limited

•Good VBA programming skills and good experience in development environment.
•Ability to communicate ideas in both technical and user-friendly language.
•Translate cell formulas in Excel into VBA code and use Excel-based VBA to design, 
analyse, and deploy programs for finance domain.
•Experience in MS access and SQL.
•Implement software user interface improvements based on client needs

EDUCATION
Bachelor of Technology In Computer sciences and engineering
Sree Chaitanya Institute of Technological Sciences
Intermediate Education
SR Education Institutions

LANGUAGES
English
Telugu

Hindi

2018/05 – 2018/07
Mumbai, Indai

2017/11 – 2018/03
Mumbai, India

2010/07 – 2014/08
Karimnagar, India
2008/06 – 2010/03
Karimnagar, India

DECLARATION
I do hereby declare that the above furnished information is, to the best of my knowledge, true and complete. I
affirmatively confirm an opportunity to work in your esteemed organization. I will deliver my full potential in
all endeavors.

Manikanta Sanganabhatla
Hyderabad

