
                              CURRICULUM VITAE


                                      Name:-MRUTYUNJAY SAMAL
                                                 E-mail:-
                       mrutyunjay2024@gmail.com
                                                   Phone: +91-7406774742



CAREER OBJECTIVE


            Senior Java Lead with 12+ years  of  IT  experience  in  design,
development, and maintenance of enterprise applications using  Java,  Spring
Boot, Microservices, and Cloud  Technologies.  Seeking  to  leverage  strong
expertise in scalable backend systems, cloud-native architectures, and  team
leadership to drive innovation and business growth.



EXPERIENCE SUMMARY



    ➢ Having 12+ years of IT experience in developing and maintenance of
      software applications using Java, J2EE and Java Framework software.
    ➢ Working experience on Tomcat ,Weblogic, JBoss.
    ➢ Experience on Framework like Spring-4.0, Hibernate-4.3, Springboot
      3.x, Microservices and Struts.
    ➢ Working experience on design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Builder,
      Front Controller, Factory, D.A.O etc.
    ➢ Hands on experience in domains like Telecom, Automobiles, Retail,
      Insurance, travel and Healthcare etc.
    ➢ Strong experience in agile based projects.
    ➢ Having working experience on microservice implementation.
    ➢ Strong knowledge on Object Oriented Programming Concepts.
    ➢ Good communication and interpersonal skills.







EXPERIENCE PROFILE


    ➢ Currently working with “Mphasis Limited” Bangalore, as a  Module  lead
      from 25th August 2021 to till date.
    ➢  Previously worked with “Capgemini Technolgy Services India  Limited”,
      Bangalore, as a Senior Consultant from June 2018 to 28th October 2020.
    ➢ Previously worked with “Sabre Travel Technology pvt  ltd”,  Bangalore,
      through Prolim Solution, Bangalore as a Senior Software Engineer  from
      20th November 2017 to 19th June 2018.
    ➢   Earlier  worked  with  “RapidValue  Solution”,  Bangalore,   through
      Careernet Technology as a Software Engineer from 12th  April  2012  to
      18th November 2017.





ACADEMIC PROFILE


    ➢  Bachelor  of  Engineering  (B.E)  in  Computer  Science  from   Utkal
      University.








TECHNICAL PROFILE


|SKILL                    |EXPERIENCED                    |AWARENESS          |
|Programming Languages    |Java 8, Java11, Java 17        |                   |
|Operating Systems        |Windows XP, Windows 10, Unix   |                   |
|Database Software        |Oracle (SQL), My SQL, Casandra |                   |
|Web Technologies (UI)    |HTML, JavaScript, Angular, CSS,|AJAX               |
|                         |XML, Swing, RESTful webservices|                   |
|                         |(Rest API)                     |                   |
|JSE Technologies         |JDBC                           |                   |
|JEE Technologies         |Servlet, JSP                   |                   |
|Framework Software       |Hibernate-4.3,Struts,Spring,Spr|SpringAOP          |
|                         |ingboot 3.x, Microservices,    |                   |
|                         |Spring security                |                   |
|ORM Tools                |Hibernate-4.3, JPA             |                   |
|Servers                  |Tomcat-9.0, Weblogic-12.0      |Jboss              |
|IDEs                     |NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ    |                   |
|                         |IDEA, Spring Tool Suite        |                   |
|Built Tool               |Maven                          |                   |
|Unit Testing             |Junit, Mockito                 |                   |
|Repository               |SVN, Gitlab                    |                   |
|Ticket tools             |Jira, VersionOne               |                   |
|Cloud Technology         |AWS, Azure                     |GCP                |
|Containerization tool    |Docker                         |                   |
|Orchestration platform   |Kubernetes                     |                   |





Project Profile


Project#01  : FedEx Itinerary Management

Duration         : August -2021 to till date
Environment     : Java 17, Springboot 3.x, Microservices, KAFKA, Casandra,
Splunk, Jenkins, SonarQube, Azure, Grafana, Eclipse, Angular, Docker,
Kubernetes
Team Size        : 9
Role                   : Developer

Description:
Itinerary Management is an intermediate system between CHUT VIEW and CHUT
CMD.IM receives Itinerary/shipment data from upstream systems(CHUT
VIEW/CDV) through queue message system and based on multiple external
system’s input and finally post the final itinerary to CHUT CMD. Primary
purpose of developing IM is to manually trigger request for Re-route of the
package using tracking or CONS ID and to help developer to view errors
/exceptions occurred by querying in logs.

Responsibilities   :

    ➢ Understanding and analysing the requirement very well.
    ➢ Involved in the development, deployment and testing of the
      application.
    ➢ Daily participated in the scrum call and client meeting.
    ➢ Involved in bugfixing and coding
    ➢ Handling daily standups and story grooming.
















Project#02  : Siemens Healthineers

Duration         : June -2018 to October 2020
Environment     : Java 8,Hibernate 4.3, Spring boot 2.7, JMS,
Microservices, Restful Webservices, Postman, AWS, SQL, Eclipse, Docker,
Kubernetes

Team Size        : 11
Role                   : Developer
Description:
Siemens is a leader in health care products, which they sell using an
online platform based on Oracle Sales Cloud (OSC).This project is about
Tacton CPQ (Configure, Price and Quote), where the product can be
configured, priced using a pricing engine and then sent Siemens for a
Quotation. Siemens uses a CPQ engine by Tacton (a Swedish company).
Responsibilities   :

    ➢ Involved in gathering requirements and Analysis
    ➢ Worked on Service Layer in writing business logic
    ➢ Involved in bugfixing and coding
    ➢ Development of web services (REST web services).


Project#03  : Crew Manager

Duration         : Nov -2017 to June - 2018
Environment     : Java 1.8 , Hibernate 3.2, Spring 3.0, RESTful
webservices, Swing, Oracle 11g,Tomcat, IntelliJ IDEA
Team Size        : 11
Role                   : Developer


Description:


Sabre AirCentre Crew Manager is a suite of enterprise software applications
used to manage airline crew operations, from long and short-term planning
through day of operations and end of month reporting. The primary user
interface, Crew Manager, is the central point of access for operations
personnel in planning, managing, repairing crew schedules, adhering to
regulatory and contractual requirements, and assisting crew with work/life
balance issues during each roster period.

Responsibilities   :
    ➢ Understating and analyzing the requirements very well written in
      Rally.
    ➢ Writing code.
    ➢ Checking-In the code in Git Repository.
    ➢ Daily participated in the client meeting.
    ➢ Writing Unit Testing.
    ➢ Helping Team members.








Project#04  : Oriental Insurance Company Limited Portal (OICL)
Duration         : Nov -2016 to Nov- 2017
Environment      :Java ,J2EE, Hibernate 3.2, Spring 3.0, RESTful
webservices, Oracle 11g, Web logic 10.3, Eclipse
Team Size        : 7
Role                   : Developer


Description:


The Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. is a well-known insurance provider. The
portal application streamlines and automates the manual functionalities of
OICL by substantiating all of the necessary requirements and therefore
reducing reliance on back office staff, formalizing insurance process and
procedures, eliminating need to manually search all separate, individual
sources, increasing request turnaround time, increasing accuracy and
reliability. The mission of the portal is to enable Services through
multiple technology channels (Internet, Mobile) for facilitating New
Business, Renewals, Claims Intimation / status and Customer Interactions.
Thus, the application provides important functionalities like buying new
policies, paying premium, intimating claim and grievances etc. It provides
a robust and secure, high-end user interface that is built on robust and
scalable J2EE architecture.

Responsibilities   :
    ➢  Analyzing the requirements and coding.
    ➢ Worked on code quality enhancement.
    ➢ Interacting with client.
    ➢ Implementing the business logic using Spring
    ➢ Bug fixing and maintenance of the project.



Project#05  :  National Transmission System Exit Reforms


Duration         : Sept -2014 to Oct -2016

Client           : XOSERVE – United Kingdom

Environment      : Java 1.7, JSP 2.x, Hibernate 3.2, Spring 3.0, Oracle
10g, Web logic 8.1,  Eclipse ID
Team Size        : 5
Role                   : Developer



Description:

      NTS Exit Reforms Phase 3 is one of the most anticipated projects.
After the successful implementation of Phase 1 and Phase 2 projects, NTS
Exit Reforms Phase 3 was commenced for the new requirements put forward by
OFGEM (Office of Gas and Electricity Markets) a government regulatory in UK
for the electricity and downstream natural gas markets in Great Britain.


Responsibilities   :
    ➢  Developed web based screens and complex SQL queries.
    ➢ Prepared the functional specification document for Equity and Fixed
      Income blotters.
    ➢ Unit Tested the Screens to fix Functional and Technical bugs.
    ➢ Provided support and maintenance to users after go-live and resolved
      raised defects.
    ➢ Communicated with the on-site personnel’s for analysis and
      implementation of task.

Project#06      :  Nomadic Elucidation
Duration     : Oct -2013 to Aug – 2014
Client                :  SingTel
Environment      : Java 1.6, J2EE, Hibernate 3.2, Spring 2.5, Oracle 10g,
Web logic 8.1, My Eclipse IDE .
Team Size    : 5
Role              : Developer 






Description  :


      The aim of this project is to create a fully featured web  application
package that smoothly carries out all the business process of  the  customer
care unit of the described Cell Phone Production.
      In this proposed system, the user of the cell phone is the client  who
needs to be served by the service provider i.e the producer  of  the  phone,
by sitting at his home. He has to place a token  regarding  the  problem  in
the phone he is using, and the producer has to solve the problem.


Responsibilities:
    ➢ Involved in the development, deployment and testing of the
      application.
    ➢ Developed the application, based on the Spring framework where the
      JSP were used as view components.
    ➢ Performing IUT and Code review.
    ➢ Design user interfaces using JSP and HTML, used Java-script for
      client side validation.



         Project # 07  :  Astra PSS (Project for automobile inventory
system)


Duration     : Jan-2013 to Sept-2013
Client                  : PT Astra International, Indonesia
Environment      : Java 1.6, J2EE, Struts 1.x, Oracle 10g, Windows XP,
Apache Tomcat.
Team Size    : 5
Role              : Software Developer

Description:
      PT Astra International Tbk is  a  general  trading  company  based  in
Jakarta, Indonesia. Astra is now one of the largest conglomeration  business
groups in Indonesia. It diversified into the  manufacture  and  distribution
of automobiles, heavy equipment and components in  the  late  currently  has
six business divisions: Automotive,  Financial  Services,  Heavy  Equipment,
Agribusiness, Information Technology,  and  Infrastructure.  This  web-based
ERP application takes care of all the functional aspects of  a  business  in
detail about purchase, sales, service or product storage.  The  Distribution
System has  five  modules  viz.  finished  unit,  spare  parts,  used  cars,
services and finance.

Responsibilities:
    ➢ Developing the UI interface.
    ➢ Writing Coding
    ➢ Peer review and IUT.
    ➢  QC and UAT support







Project # 08           : Textrade


Duration                : April -2012 to Dec -2012
Client                 : Textrade
Environment            : Java, Servlets, JSP, Struts 1.1, JavaScript,
Tomcat, Oracle 9i, Windows 2000
Team Size                    : 3
Role                   : Software Developer


 Description:

      It’s a web based  workflow system  to  manage  the  e-Retail  business
transactions which will communicate with  different  partner  portals  like,
Overstock,  Amazon,  7th  Avenue,  etc.  and  warehouses.   Out   of   this,
communication with overstock will be via APIs provided by  them  and  others
will be through the exported standard excel files. This will  enable  senior
management of Textrade to analyze the performance of all partner portals  on
a dashboard and strategic business decisions. Automating  the  co-ordination
with partner portal and warehouse will  also  help  expediting  the  current
trade cycle and offer scalability in the near future.



Responsibilities:
    ➢ Implementing the functionality as per the FRD.
    ➢ To develop, deploy and support the complete solution.
    ➢ Contributing to low level design
    ➢ Unit testing.
    ➢ Code Review.



Strengths:

      ➢ Understanding the priorities and needs of the business and
        adapting to the changing requirements.
      ➢ Skilled in mentoring junior developers and leading Agile
        teams.
      ➢ Good communication skills and customer focused.
      ➢ Strong programming and communication skills.
      ➢ Competitive nature in working environment
      ➢ Effective communicator and good team player.

                                     MRUTYUNJAY SAMAL
