
NADEEM SADIQ RAIN
Software Engineer | Java, Springboot microservices, Angular

nadeemsadiqrain@gmail.com
9 New Delhi, India



SUMMARY
q linkedin.com/in/nadeem-sr
Mob: 9990970833





STRENGTHS


	


Proficient Senior software engineer with 10.6 year of experience in designing, developing, and implementing software applications. Utilize Java, Spring boot microservices, and Angular to write scalable, secure code with a knack for problem-solving. Successfully optimized a software program resulting in a 30% efficiency increase.


EXPERIENCE

Technology Specialist	2023 - Present
Coforge	Noida, India
Responsible for developing and implementing software applications
Designed and implemented a new software application, resulting in a 20% increase in efficiency for the department.
Led a project to integrate third-party APIs, reducing data redundancy and improving data quality.
Collaborated with the product team to understand their requirements and tailor-made solutions that increased product functionality by 35%.

Senior Software Engineer	03/2022 - 11/2023
CGI	Bangloru, India
Assisted in the design and development of software applications
Managed the software development endeavor as the project manager's main point of contact and subject matter expert.
Trained and guided junior engineers and developers, imparting knowledge in Java, Node.js, and Vue.js while striving to enhance team productivity.
Checked client code for bugs and weaknesses using approved troubleshooting methods.
Consistently met project deadlines and received a commendation for dedication and focus.

Senior Technical Consultant	10/2020 - 03/2022
Virtusa Poloris	Gurgaon, India
Provided technical support and assistance
Alpine is a banking domain project where files (provided by BNP) must be enhanced in accordance with requirements (using the aforementioned technologies) and then
published on the Argon route (Argon is the tool where files are published).
Understanding requirements and design appropriate solution against requirements.
Code review and code optimization.
Performing database operations on data gathered from states to compute.
Deploy application on corresponding environment (dev,sit,UAT,prod)

Technical Consultant	07/2019 - 07/2020
IRIS Software Systems	Noida, India
Company Description
k Problem-Solving
Resolved complex software issues in previous role delivering a 40% reduction in long-standing unresolved problems.

& Collaboration
Led a cross-functional team of four developers in the successful
execution of a critical project on time and under budget.

b Adaptability
Quickly incorporated new software updates in all projects, ensuring minimal disruption to workflow and maintaining project schedules.


SKILLS

Java 8X Spring Boot Microservices Angular Sql server HTML JavaScript vue.Js REST Nodejs.Design Pattern Software Testing Principles API Gateway, Multithreading, Datebase, Docker, Jenkins.

CERTIFICATION
Advanced Java
Programming
Accomplished a Cetpa Infotech Advanced Java course.
Java Spring Boot to AWS Elastic
Beanstalk

* Coding
PASSIONS
Enjoy building and optimizing
software applications, always on the lookout for new programming
languages and techniques to learn.

Analyzed client business processes to propose optimal software applications for unique requirements.
Recommended technology upgrades to improve client security.
Developed diagrams to describe and lay out logical operational steps.
Developed technical requirement documentation for new software products.



EXPERIENCE

Software Engineer	05/2018 - 06/2019
Chetu India	Noida, Inida
Company Description
Coordinated with other engineers to evaluate and improve software and hardware interfaces.
Worked with software development and testing team members to design and develop robust solutions to meet client requirements for functionality, scalability, and performance.
Reviewed project specifications and designed technology solutions that met or exceeded performance expectations.
Associate Software Engineer	07/2015 - 05/2018
Coral Telecom	Noida, India
Company Description
Teamed with business analysts to deliver high-availability solutions for mission-critical applications.
Checked configuration files and logs to uncover root causes of problems.
Devised software with modules for report generation.
Optimized test cases to maximize success of manual software testing.

EDUCATION

Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering	07/2010 - 2014
Uttar Pradesh Technical University	Noida, UP