Nagendra Vendra
Mobile	:  9490603720	   
Email	: nagendrav.3333@gmail.com


Professional Summary: 

Having Around 5+ years’ work experience out of these 4+ years of experience in developing ETL processes using IDMC tools like  IICS and Power center  with relational databases like Oracle and Flat files.
Preparing the documentation for the mappings according to the Business requirements
 Analyze source data, business requirements, and source repositories.
Worked with Informatica Power Center for extracting data from legacy systems to stage and then to cleanse, Process and Loading into Data Marts and Data Warehouse.
Extensively worked on creating Mappings, Transformations, and Workflows to extract data from various sources and load into targets.
Extensively used ETL methodology for supporting data extractions, transformations and loading by using Informatica.
Involved in developing mappings using different transformations as required.
Good experience in extraction, transformation and loading of data directly from different heterogeneous source systems like Flat files, Oracle, DB2, PostgreSQL.
Hands on experience with complex mappings from varied transformation logics like Unconnected and Connected lookups, Router, Aggregator, Joiner and Update Strategy.
Experience in Workflow Manager Tools - Task Developer, Workflow& Worklet Designer.
Implemented performance-tuning techniques to increase the performance of the loading process.
Checking all daily alert mail and Proactive working on it to make business fine.
Creating Unit test cases and involved in Unit testing.
Extensively worked on creating Mappings, Transformations, Sessions, and Workflows to extract data from various sources and load into targets

Technical Skills

ETL                             : Informatica Intelligent cloud service (IICS), Informatica Power Center 9.x,10x
Operating Systems  :  Windows, UNIX.
Languages                  : SQL, PL/SQL
RDBMS                       :  Oracle 9i, 10g and 11, DB2, Postgre SQL

Education: 

B. tech from  Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Kakinada with 66%
Intermediate from Pragathi Junior college with 93.6%
SSC from Viveka Bala Bharathi with 84%

Professional Experience:

Working as a Consult in CGI, Hyderabad from March 2024 to Till now
Worked as a Informatica Developer in Infosys, Hyderabad from June 2022 to May 2023.
Worked as Associate Software Engineer in  Mouri Tech, Hyderabad from December 2019 to November 2021.

Project Summary:      

Project #3: Data Injection						            March 2024 – Present
	    		                                  

Roles and Responsibilities: 

Gathered requirements from client and developed informatica cloud jobs to systematically transfer data from Salesforce system to Downstream and to legacy systems.
Created ETL and Datawarehouse standards documents - Naming Standards, ETL methodologies and strategies, Standard input file formats, data cleansing and preprocessing strategies 
Created mapping documents with detailed source to target transformation logic, Source data column information and target data column information 
Designed, Developed and Implemented ETL processes using IICS Data integration
Created IICS connections using various cloud connectors in IICS administrator 
Extensively used cloud transformations – Aggregator, Expression, Filter, Joiner, Lookup (connected and unconnected), Rank, Router, Sequence Generator, Sorter,  Union Transformations
Developed Cloud integration parameterized mapping templates (DB, and table object parametrization) for Stage, Dimension (SCD Type1, SCD Type2, CDC and Incremental Load) and Fact load processes 
Extensively used Parameters (Input and IN/OUT parameters), Expression Macros and Source Partitioning Partitions 
Extensively used Push Down Optimization option to optimize processing and Debugging techniques to increase performance 
Extracted data from Snowflake to push the data into Oracle instance to support reporting requirements 
Performed loads into Snowflake instance using Snowflake connector in IICS for a separate project to support data analytics and insight use case for Sales team
Developed CDC load process for moving data from Peoplesoft to SQL Datawarehouse using “Informatica Cloud CDC for Oracle Platform” 
Developed complex Informatica Cloud Task flows (parallel) with multiple mapping tasks and task flows 
Involved in Development, Unit Testing, SIT and UAT phases of project.
  	                                                          
Project #2: Vehicle config and pricing determination		                          June 2022 to May 2023		

Roles and Responsibilities: 
Migration of the PC code to IICS platform
Responsible for gathering suit of business requirements, Prepare Source to Target Mapping specifications and Transformation rules.
Created Source to Target Mapping Specification Document
Involved in system study, analyzing the requirements by meeting the client and designing the system
Developed mappings/Reusable Objects/Transformation/mapplets by using mapping designer, transformation developer and mapplet designer
Extracted data from different sources like Oracle, Flat files.
Loading data from various sources like RDS, SQL Server, Oracle, Flat File, Aurora
Implemented CDC using IICS, migrated and developed utility from PC to IICS
Identifying the optimized Informatica method of developing all the new interfaces.
Understand the requirements and prepare the documents with the listing of various targets
from a single source.
Created automation for identifying the rejected record report using UNIX.
Sending testing status reports on a daily basis to onshore team and updating the burn down charts present in the share point.


Project #1: Rexel Holdings USA			                                                           Dec 2019 to Nov 2021 



Roles and Responsibilities: 

Coordinated with business analysts to analyze the business requirements and designed and reviewed the implementation plan.
Support various ETL processes in the Data Warehouse Environment.
Worked for production support team for few months and ensured clearing up the existing defects created by the data governance team.
Responsible for designing and development, testing of processes necessary to extract data from operational databases, Transform and load it into data warehouse using Informatica Power center
Created Complex Mappings to load data using transformations like Source Qualifier, Expression, Aggregator, Dynamic Lookup, Connected and Unconnected Lookups, Joiner, Sorter, Filter, Stored Procedures, Sequence, Router and Update Strategy
Created different jobs using UNIX shell scripting to call the workflow by using Command tasks.
Writing Oracle SQL queries to join or any modifications in the table.
Worked in the performance tuning, ETL and other processes to optimize session performance.
Followed ETL standards -Audit activity, Job control tables and session validations.
Analyze source data coming from multiple sources System.

