	G O B I N D A  PA U L	
India, Maharashtra, Pune • (+91) 9748294711 • gobindapaul.jadavpur2@gmail.com


Java Developer having 10 years of total experience and 9 years of relevant experience in Java and Java Spring boot technology. Self-motivated, team worker and individual contributor. Has experienced to work on high pressurized environment. Always result oriented and quick learner.
S k i l l s 
Java 8, Spring Boot Framework, Spring Security, Oauth2, MicroServices, REST API, Git and GitLab, Bit bucket, Postman, Maven, Junit, Mockito, Kafka, OpenAPI, Swagger
SQL (Oracle), PostgreSQL
Cloud: AWS, IBM Openshift
Java Selenium Automation tool
CSS, HTML, JQuery
Linux, Python
Agile
Team Lead

E x p e r i e n c e 
SEP, 2024 – PRESENT
Senior Technical Lead |HCL Tech | Pune, India

#1 Project: Banking Project, USA, 2024-Present
Working on Spring boot Migration project.
Migrating the existing J2ee application to Spring boot.
For Security implementation, here we are using Spring Security.
Here we are using Apache kafka for its different services.
Also for deployment, we are using Jenkins and for code quality check we are using SonarQube.
Source Code Repository we are using Bitbucket.
For the cloud we are using AWS.

AUG, 2017 - PRESENT
Java Lead Developer | Tata Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd. | Pune, India
#1 Project: TAP AIR PORTUGAL, Portugal, 2023-Present
TAP is an Airline base web application. The application having multiple sub modules. All were developed using J2ee framework. We are now converting it to Spring boot Microservices.
Here we are using Java 8 features for the development.
Here I am working as a Team Lead and handling a good size of java development team.
Here we are using the POSTMAN to test the REST API end points.
Using Oracle as a database.
For code quality check, we are using SonarQube.

Source Code Repository we are using GitLab.
For the cloud we are using IBM Openshift.

#2 Project: Go Express, Germany, 2021-2023
Go-Express is a logistic enterprise web application that used Java Spring boot to process over 0.4 to 0.5 million of transactions per day.
Here I am working as a Team Lead and handling a good size of java development team.
Developed new Microservices to build new feature function using Spring boot and maintaining the
existing Microservices and enhanced them to cater the change request.
We have used POSTMAN to test the REST API end points.
Using Junit and Mockito for unit testing.
Used PostgreSQL as database


Senior Java Developer | Tata Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd | Kolkata, India
#3 TCS BaNCS Project (This Application has been used by JPMorgan Chase & Co Bank, City Bank), 2019-2021
Worked on TCS BaNCS project. This is a standalone application. This Application has been used by big banks like City Bank and JPMorgan Chase & Co Bank.
This is an Agile based project and here I was working as a Senior Java developer.
Worked on multiple modules like Loan Disbursal, Account Creation, Calculation, Closing Account etc.
Here technology we are using as Java 8, JSP, OracleDB.

#4 Project: Prudential, UK Insurance, 2018-2018
Prudential is an UK Insurance Company. They are using our internal developed framework.
Every day it has processed more than one million of transactions.
Worked here as a Java spring boot developer.
This was a monolithic application, we are converting it to Microservices base application by converting each of its module to an individual Microservice.
Maintaining the newly created Microservices.
Worked on processes like claim submission, quote generation, pdf doc generation etc
Java Developer | Tata Consultancy Services Pvt Ltd | Kolkata, India #5 Project: Diligenta, UK Insurance, 2017-2018
Worked here as a Java developer.
Defect resolving, maintenance, talk to the client’s development and testing team to resolve the defects etc.

JAN, 2015 – MAY, 2017
QA Automation Test Engineer | Eccentric Pvt. Ltd. (Client: STQC IT Services) | Kolkata
Developed an automation solution that monitors system performance and proactively identifies and resolves potential issues
Developed and implemented automation framework using Java Selenium to reduce manual labor and improve accuracy
Some of the project I have used cucumber and feature files.
Worked in different government web sites which were developed by TCS or Infosys or Wipro etc.
Implemented a responsive design that ensured the web application was accessible on all devices
Developed multiple websites using php mysql, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap etc.
Hosting the websites and maintain.
Worked on Car sale/purchase web sites, Baby Sitter, Book Store, Medicine Store, Yellow Page etc.

E d u c a t i o n
Post Graduate | Master of Computer Application (MCA) | Jadavpur University Under Graduate | Mathematics Honours | Calcutta University
Subjects: Pure and Advance Mathematics