
Venkataswamy Podugu
Currently, working at RealPage India PVT LTD.

Phone# - 9676717397	Email – venkataswamy.java@gmail.com	Place - Hyderabad
LinkedIn URL - https://www.linkedin.com/in/venkataswamy-podugu-05b332121/
Career Objectives:
Motivated & results-driven Java Backend/Full Stack Developer (Senior Developer) having 9 years of experience, seeking new challenging opportunities to contribute to innovative projects. Passionate about working with Java-based technologies, UI frameworks, and software development. Eager to leverage existing skills while continuously learning & adapting to emerging technologies. Committed to delivering high-quality solutions and driving both personal & organizational growth through proactive problem-solving and continuous improvement.
Skills & Highlights:
Experienced & results-oriented professional having worked on both development & support- maintenance projects of large-scale enterprise/web applications with expertise in coding, issue analysis, problem-solving etc.
Strong proficiency in Core & Advanced Java, along with frameworks such as Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Cloud, Hibernate.
In-depth experience with RESTful Web Services and API development & integration.
Designing and developing Microservices-based applications.
Deploying and managing applications on Cloud Platforms.
Containerization and orchestration using Docker and Kubernetes, including creating and managing containerized applications.
Hands-on experience on frontend technologies ReactJS, jQuery, JavaScript, TypeScript, Ajax, HTML, & CSS.
Good understanding of Batch Scripting and UNIX Commands for automation and system tasks.
Good understanding of Database Fundamentals, with experience working on SQL, PL/SQL etc.
Hands-on experience on Message Queuing & Event Streaming in distributed systems (Kafka and AvtiveMQ).

Have hands-on experience with JUnit for writing and executing test cases.
Strong communication skills with significant experience in client interactions, including requirements gathering, business process understanding, and delivering efficient solutions to cater to client needs.
Excellent team player with a collaborative mindset and the ability to work effectively in multicultural environments.
Recognized with multiple client appreciations throughout my tenure for consistently delivering high-quality work and meeting deadlines.
Work Experience:
Senior Developer at RealPage India PVT LTD (March 2016 – Present)
Associate at Cognizant Technology Solutions (June 2013 – March 2016)
Education:
M.C.A from Osmania University, Hyderabad

Current Project Profile:

Project Description:
Propertyware is an on-demand software solution that serves the tracking and management needs of residential property managers with between 20 and 5,000 units. The system can accommodate a variety of different types of property managers, including those with residential properties, condos, homeowners associations (HOAs) and multi-family units. Propertyware is scalable, allowing it to grow along with the business that employs it.
Key functionality of Propertyware includes accounting, portals for owners and tenants, websites with customization options, marketing processes, tenant screening and other crucial property management tasks. The system is deployed online, and units can be purchased on an as-needed basis. The system’s accounting components can integrate with QuickBooks to allow flexibility and completeness in its accounting functionality.

Tools & Technologies:
Languages	:	Core Java, Advanced Java
Frameworks	:	Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Data JPA, Hibernate, ReactJS, RESTful API, Struts
Scripting Languages :	HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, TypeScript, Ajax, Batch Script Application Servers	 :	Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat Databases & Tools	:	 Oracle, SQL Developer, MySQL, MySQL Workbench
Build Tool	:	ANT, Maven
Version Control	:	GIT, SVN
IDE	:	IntelliJ, Eclipse, Visual Studio
Microservices Tools  :	Feign Client, Postman, Docker, Kubernetes, AWS Cloud
Ticketing Tools	:	JIRA, BMC Remedy
Testing Tools	:	Junit
Misc. Tools	:	Putty, FileZilla, WinSCP
Responsibilities	:
Built and maintained multiple backend services using Spring Boot, enabling rapid development of RESTful microservices.
Followed Sprint practices like Daily Scrum, Sprint Planning, Sprint Retrospective, Sprint Reviews. Played the role of Scrum Master along with day-to-day activities.
Implemented new features and enhancements based on user feedback and technical requirements.
Collaborated with cross-functional teams to troubleshoot and resolve software issues efficiently.
Oversaw the development and maintenance of various software modules ensuring high quality deliverables.
Conducted code reviews and provided mentorship to junior developers to improve overall code quality.

Declaration:
“I hereby declare, all the above-mentioned details are true to my knowledge, and I can assure you that I’ll work to my level best if I get selected in your esteemed organization.”