NAYAK SHIVAPRASAD
Contact:- +9173491 99275 E-Mail:- Shivaprasadnk785@gmail.com
Career Objective:
Looking for Challenging role in a dynamic organization where my skills and
experience in the field of Java programming help in business / user information
solutions.
Professional Summary:
Professional Summary:
 Having above 5+ years of Overall work experience in the areas of Analysis,
Design, Development, and Unit Testing in Web based and client server
applications.
Knowledge in implementing various Object-Oriented Design Patterns such as
Singleton Design Pattern and Strategy Design Pattern.
Hands on working with the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, Angular,
ReactJS and JavaScript.
Sound understanding of entire Software Development Life Cycle with work
experience in almost all phases like requirements gathering, Design,
Coding, Unit Testing and Bug fixing.
Having Strong Working Knowledge in various open source frameworks such as
Spring MVC Features, Hibernate.
Integrate with REST/SOAP APIs for communication with other systems.
Experience in integrating Spring Boot with Jpa Hibernate.
Having Working Knowledge on Spring Boot.
Hands on working with the presentation layer using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
Experience in Apache Tomcat, Jboss.
Knowledge on working with Oracle 10g.
Developed and deployed microservices architecture for [specific projects or
applications], improving scalability and maintainability.
Utilized RESTful APIs and message brokers (e.g., Kafka) for inter-service
communication, ensuring efficient data exchange.
Developed a [type of application, e.g., web application, data processing system]
utilizing AWS services to enhance scalability, reliability, and performance.
Expertise in building reusable, modular components with React's
component-based architecture.
services to enhance scalability, reliability, and performance.
Developed and maintained dynamic, responsive web applications using
React.js.
Expertise in building reusable, modular components with React's
component-based architecture.
Education:
Completed B.Tech in Dr. M.S.SHESHGIRI (KLE) COLLEGE OF
ENGINEERING BELGAUM 2016 .
Experience Details:
IT EXPERIENCE:
✧ Worked as Senior Software Engineer in Dover corporation from Jun 2024 to Jun 2025
✧ Worked as Senior Software Engineer in Intertrust Group from March 2023 To Jan 2024.
✧ Worked as System Engineer in SIGHTSEER INNOVATIONS PRIVATE LIMITED from
JAN 2020 to Feb 2023 .
Technical Skill Set:
Languages
Java, JavaScript,JQuery, React Js.
Java IDE’s Eclipse, Intellij.
Application Server Tomcat.
Frameworks Spring Core, Spring MVC, Angular, ReactJS, Structs ,Spring Boot,
Hibernate,Microservices.
Database Oracle , Postgress SQL.
Operating Systems Windows.
Tools GitBash, SQL Developer, Maven, Svn Repository, GitHub, Junit and
Log4J
Client-Side Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery.
Cloud Aws
Project Details:
Project 1 : WorldPay
This project developed streamline the checkout experience and online payment processing so
customers can easily and safely pay how they want and wherever they are. Customers can use a wide
array of payment options, including credit and debit card processing, mobile payments, and online
payment gateways. Offers advanced fraud protection, data security, and insightful analytics to help
businesses optimize their payment processes and enhance customer experiences. By integrating
innovative technology and comprehensive support, this project aims to simplify and streamline
transactions, driving growth and efficiency for its clients across various industries.
Role & Responsibilities:
● Implemented the Backend API using Restful Web Services.
● Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling,
Collection APIs, Garbage collections.
● Developed RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and worked on testing
the RESTful APIs
● Used Maven as build automation tool and responsible for Jenkins like Continuous
Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD).
● Improving system scalability and reliability.
● Reducing data processing latency.
● Enabling real-time data analytics and insights.
● Involved in unit testing, test case reviews and code reviews in accordance with applicable
development standards.
● Developed and maintained J2EE components including and Servlets
● Analyze the procedure and route the issues to DB team if the issues related to DB.
● Implemented client logic through product business functionality.
● Implemented Report and Admin microservices from scratch
● Implemented Rest API’s and Business service classes for Report and Admin microservices
● Implemented action classes based on workflow engine..
● Implemented logic for new payment creation for each transaction maintaining funds amount
transaction details like date, fund amount, check no and check type.
● Implemented logic for each transaction showing as separate pages funds status information.
Environment/Tools: Java , Hibernate ,Core java, Spring boot, RestAPI, MicroServices, SpringData
JPA, ReactJs, Mongo DB, MySQL, Docker, GitLab, MicroService, Spring Security, Eureka server,
Config server, Rabbit MQ.
Project 2:Apptio
Apptio, a leading TBM SaaS platform used by enterprises to manage and optimize
IT financial operations. Built scalable backend services that supported financial modeling, cloud
cost optimization, and IT planning across large-scale infrastructures. Leveraged Spring Boot,
JPA, REST APIs, Java 8, and multithreading to deliver high-performance solutions, while
integrating MySQL, PostgreSQL, and NoSQL databases. Implemented CI/CD pipelines with
GitHub Actions, automated deployments, and used Kafka for distributed message processing.
Worked extensively with AWS services including RDS, S3, API Gateway, Lambda, Kinesis, and
SNS to build cloud-native, event-driven architectures. Improved application performance by
optimizing complex SQL queries and ensuring secure, scalable deployments. Provided on-call
production support, resolved critical issues, monitored system health, and contributed to
documentation.
Roles and Responsibilities:
● Implemented features using Core Java, Java 8, Micro Services, Spring Boot.
● Written React components to handle UI functionality and React JS and Redux for
implementing core functionality and for Integration.
● Utilized Dynamo Db and MySQL.
● Participating in client calls and involved in the requirement gathering from the clients.
● Involved in developing business logic in service layer and persistent logic in DAO Layer.
● Involved in bug fixing and maintenance of the application.
● Contribute to ensuring high quality of code by performing unit testing and following best
practices.
● Set up CI/CD pipelines using [Jenkins, GitLab CI, etc.] to automate testing, integration, and
deployment processes.
● Designed and implemented RESTful APIs for seamless communication between services,
ensuring efficient data flow and integration.
● Proficient in using Spring Framework for dependency injection, inversion of control (IoC), and
aspect-oriented programming (AOP).
● Expertise in building RESTful and web applications using Spring MVC with features like data
binding, form handling, and request mapping
● Designed and implemented microservices architecture to break down monolithic applications
into smaller, independent services for better scalability, fault isolation, and maintainability.
● Involved in business logic to fetch the data from database
● Involved in fix any defects and performance problems discovered during testing.
● Deployed containerized applications using Amazon ECS/EKS, managing clusters with Docker
and Kubernetes.
Environment: Java,Java8, Hibernate, Spring Security, Spring IOC, Restfull Web services,
Spring Boot with Micro Services, Angular ,ReactJS Junit,Mockito,Tomcat 7,
Eclipse,Teamcity,SonarQube,postman,OracleSQL Developer,Aws.
Project-3: B2BBridge
Project name : B2BBridge
Environment/Tools: Java / J2EE, Spring Boot, Restful web services, ReactsJs, Microservices,Kafka,
MongoDB, Reactjs Hibernate ,Tomcat.
Description:
B2BBridge is a centralized booking and tracking system with an automated dispatching and
handling mechanism. Multiple Cab Agencies can connect and handle their bookings with their
software. It provides some feature like intercity bookings, Airport bookings, Outstation bookings, Cab
for Bus Bookings, Public shared taxi (PST) and Posting bookings, Posting Vehicles to other Cab
agencies with their mutual understanding. 3rd party APIs for map and SMS are used in this project.
Roles and Responsibilities:
● Developed Airport bookings complete module.
● Developed Public Shared Taxi (PST) Complete module.
● Involved in development of Post Booking module.
● Involved in development of Admin module.
● Direct Client Interaction and fixing Issues.
● Provide user Security for individual cab agency.
● Involved in maintenance of this project.
● Involved in Writing SQL Queries and JDBC code to establish connection with MySQL.
Declaration:
I hereby declare that all the above furnished details are true to the best of my
knowledge.
Date:
Place : (SHIVAPRASAD NAYAK)