

P JYOTI 
Contacts
                                               +91 9590952191

jyotiprabha687@gmail.com



Profile Synopsis
Product Owner / Business Analyst with 11 years of experience leading end-to-end product lifecycle management across Core Banking, Digital Banking, Cards & Payments, and Lending solutions. Skilled in backlog prioritization, stakeholder collaboration, documentation, and testing. Proven track record in driving digital transformation, launching new products, and delivering user-centric solutions within Agile environments for leading organizations.

Work Experience
Job Title: Lead Product Owner
Company Name: Fidelity Information Services India Pvt. Ltd
Employment Date: Nov 2021- Dec 2025
Led end to end product development lifecycle for core banking and digital banking products served for 500+ clients.
By enhancing core products and transforming the digital platform experience (Web & Mobile app) Improved adoption by 45%.
Handled core banking products like deposit accounts, customer onboarding, cards payments, wallets, retail loans and digital banking application products (Web & Mobile app) 
Managed a scrum team of 15+ members, including developers and QA engineers to deliver features
Worked with internal and external stakeholders to define product vision, business objectives (OKRs) and customer needs and accordingly created the product backlog and prioritized for development team
Responsible for creating user stories, grooming, acceptance criteria and test scenarios, managing and prioritizing backlog with development teams to ensure smooth agile workflows to deliver features 
Prepared and maintained Product Requirement Document (PRD) and Functional Release Notes (FRNs), test completion reports, and release notes to support smooth deployment cycles
Led client discussions to triage and prioritize defects
Tracked product performance and identified new opportunities for improvement

Job Title: Senior Business Analyst
Company Name: Accenture Solutions Pvt. Ltd
Employment Date: Aug 2016 - Nov 2021
Spearheaded product integration for top players of German Bank and China Bank.
Handled core product implementation such as Client Onboarding, Deposit Product, Teller Remittance, Payments, KYC/AML
Played a crucial role in the migration of legacy systems to a modern core banking platform, which led to an operational cost reduction of 15% through streamlining processes.
Served as the primary liaison between business, development teams, ensuring clarity of requirements for implementation
Conducted requirement discovery and analysis with stakeholder and created key document such as Business Requirements Documents (BRD)
Conducted sprint planning, backlog grooming, create user stories, acceptance criteria and test scenario for development teams and participated in user acceptance testing (UAT) to validate solutions
Prepared and maintained release documentation including Functional Release Notes (FRNs), test completion reports, and release notes to support smooth deployment cycles

Job Title: Customer Relationship Manager
Company Name: Akshaya Wealth Management Pvt Ltd.
Employment Date: Dec 2014- Aug 2016
Managed loan processing operations while deputed to a leading Indian bank, overseeing the entire loan lifecycle, including origination, profile and credit checks, disbursement, repayment, remittance, and RTGS.
Undertook underwritingandjudgmental creditdecision-makingfor mortgages, catering to both Indian and NRI customers.
Ensured fraud prevention andrevenue protection across branch operations while adhering to KYC and AML norms and regulations.
Addressed customer service requests, including repayment and pre-closure, through the Single One View platform.
Conducted internal and external audits, self-audits, and ensured compliance with regulatory and administrative standards.

Education
Master’sdegree: College: Acharya Institute of Technology, University: VTU, Bangalore, Year: 2009- 2011
Bachelor’sdegree: College: B.N College, University: Patna University, Patna, Year: 2005- 2008

Skills








SAFe®PMPO – 4 & 5
Certificate in Product Ownership Analysis (IIBA-CPOA) facilitate by Pluralsight
KYC/AML from Institute of Banking Personnel Selection

Achievements
Quarter Star Award- 3 times
Highest Ops. Efficiency Score for implement complex Card Payment feature
Recognized for Stakeholder Management
Recognized from External Stakeholder
Recognized for Successful Migration and Digital Transformation Project

Personal Information
DOB: Aug 1987
Nationality: Indian
Marital Status: Married
Place: Bangalore, India
I herebydeclare thatthe information furnishedabove is true to the best of my knowledge.

Date: