Name: Pavan Kumar Mahankali
Email: Mahankali.pavan24@gmail.com
Phone: 9603335300


SUMMARY 

Having around 8+ years of IT experience in Development and Implementation of Software Applications using various Java/J2EE technologies and holding AWS Developer Associate Certification. 
Having experience in Multithreading and Collections
Worked in Developing Web applications and API’s using SPRING, SPRING BOOT, HIBERNATE,and REST SERVICES. 
Having experience in Microservices, Eureka service registry , Hystrix ,Zipkin
Having experience in Test Driven development(Junit,Mockito)
Having experience in Event Driven development(Kafka)
Having experience in Distributed Tracing Splunk 
Having experience in Swagger(Design first Implementation later)
Having experience in Flink(Stream processing)
Having experience in Postman
Having experience in Heroku
Having experience in Restful Web Services. 
Having experience in SQL queries. 
Having experience in Cassandra
Having experience in HTML, JavaScript, JQuery. 
Good Working knowledge on Application development and maintenance life cycle process. 
Expertise in implementing Object Oriented Methodologies and Design Patterns such as Factory, MVC, DAO etc.  
Strong troubleshooting and analytical skills.
Project Management Tool JIRA
TECHNICAL SKILLS



EXPERIENCE


Cognizant Technology Solutions 		                                                               Nov 2022 to Till Date 

Client: DukeEnergy
Project 1: Transmission Vegetation Management
Summary: Transmission Vegetation Management is part of transmission and its primary role is to identify threats causing interruption to the energy supply lines, take the necessary precautions and implement appropriate remedies. Planning for this happens making use of several components and Transmission Vegetation Management Work Planning, Analysis, and Scheduling System(TVM WorkPASS) is an important component.
Transmission Vegetation Management Work Planning, Analysis, and Scheduling System (TVM WorkPASS) is the digital platform which combines risk-based modeling and geospatial products to identify and analyze vegetation threats for optimal field execution to maximize reliability across Duke Energy’s 32,000+ mile transmission grid. This is achieved by Developing tools and methods to utilize remote sensing data (e.g. LIDAR) analytics for transforming TVM from a ‘time-based specification” driven work flow to a “data driven threat and condition”-based approach. Establishing sustainable Transmission-focused GIS platform to support spatial analytics and field mobile GIS applications. Creating optimized work plans which maximizes crew efficiency, balances risk reduction and costs, and ensures regulatory compliance. ROOTS and LeafOut are the tools used during the Plan Work and Work Execution Phase. These are the pivotal non GIS components in the overall TVM landscape with a web interface (web applications).
ROOTS is the prime one responsible for planning and scheduling of work, also helps in getting the work dispensed to general foremen. End users of this application are Vegetation Management program managers, resource coordinators. LeafOut is mainly used by the general formen and serves their day to day activities of managing the work items among crew members, validate and promote it to next stage, capture the effort (hours) spent.

Responsibilities: 
Design and Develop Applications: Create and maintain Java-based applications, ensuring they meet user requirements and are scalable.
Code Review and Debugging: Write clean, efficient code and perform regular code reviews to identify and fix bug.
Collaborate with Teams: Work closely with other developers, designers, and stakeholders to integrate various components and ensure smooth project execution

Client: DukeEnergy(Jan 2024-Till Date)
Project 2: NGBU
Summary: The GIM (Gas Integration Manager) Tool is a web-based application that gives Duke employees and external engineering contractors the ability to research material items, create BOM’s, validate material items, and send BOM’s into Maximo.

Responsibilities: 
Troubleshoot Issues: Identify and resolve issues in Java applications, ensuring minimal downtime and smooth operation.
Provide Technical Support: Assist users and clients with technical queries and issues related to Java applications.
Collaborate with Development Teams: Work closely with developers to understand application functionality and provide feedback for improvements.


Concentrix Catalyst			                                                                        JUN 2021 to NOV2022

Client: T-Mobile(Supply Chain Services)

Project: Stock on Hand 
Summary: This Project comes under Supply Chain Services (SCS) domain. Stock On Hand Project helps in managing the Stocks like iPhones, SIM, Accessories and more in T-Mobile Stores. It helps in tracking the overall Inventory available at respective T-Mobile Stores and Distributed Centres (DC). To handle the real time inventory transactions in Stores and DCs we developed the Processing Stream applications and Microservices.

Responsibilities: 
Design API documentation using Swagger.
Converted a monolithic app to microservices architecture using Spring Boot.
Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot.
Implemented Hysterix a Latency and Fault Tolerance system for Distributed Systems.
Implemented Zipkins for distributed Micro Service Monitoring.
Used spring config server for centralized configuration and Splunk for centralized logging.
Used GIT as version control system.
Developed story/task by following TDD concepts. Providing daily status in scrum meetings with the client. 
Environment: Java 1.8, Multithreading ,Collections, Microservices,Restful web Services (JERSEY, Spring Boot), Heroku, Zipkins, Hysterix, Spring Config server, HTML, JSON, Slf4j, Maven, Git, Junit, Cassandra,splunk,Postman,Swagger,Kafka, flink

Anugraha Exceed Private Limited			                                                   OCT-2019 to JUN 2021

Client: Etihad Airways

Project: IGrade : 
 
Summary:  IGrade is a revolutionary project by anugraha which is to reduce the overhead in pilot’s Training system. It allows the pilot to take his CBT (content based training) from IPAD and also an app that contains the different modules Courses, Training History, Training Calendar, Questionnaires where the end-user will have access to track his progress, taking his exams, check his schedules.. 
Responsibilities: 
Design API documentation using Swagger.
Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot.
Used SVN as version control system.
Developed story/task by following TDD concepts. Providing daily status in scrum meetings with the client. 
Environment: Java 1.8,Restful web Services (JERSEY, Spring Boot), HTML, JSON, Slf4j, Maven, Git, Junit, Oracle ,Postman,Swagger
Sankhya Infotech Limited						                       Dec 2017 to Mar 2018

Client:  Etihad Airways

Software developer, Design, Development & Maintenance:

Project:  AIMS-TMS INTEGRATION 

Summary: AIMS -TMS Operations Control (AIMS TMS Scheduling) Schedules the pilot training programs based on the information it gets from the AIMS software.It Provides coverage of all flight sectors of the schedule according to aircraft type requirements. Fully incorporates all planned aircraft maintenance events and User-defined planning limitations. Automatically allocates aircraft registration letters or tail numbers. Ability to link specific aircraft Schedules 
To specified Trainees (Pilots). 
AIMS-TMS contains the different modules Crew Schedule, Training course, Crew Personal. Where Each module maintains the data of pilots according to its specification.Automatically updates individual aircraft hours, cycles, checks and other technical restrictions facilitating daily aircraft assignment by registration letters or tail numbers to the flying program

Responsibilities: 
Complete end to end development of various new modules according to client requirements. Troubleshooting issues in the various modules. 
Continuous interaction with clients for better productivity. 
Patch preparation and code deployment by preparing Release Notes. 
Research and feasibility checking for new implementations. 
Communicate issues and progress to team lead
.

Environment:  Eclipse,Git,Java 1.8,Maven,Spring,Hibernate, HTML,Junit, Oracle 11g,Log4j


 Sankhya Infotech Limited                            		                                                    Mar 2017 to Sep 2019

Software Developer, Design, Development & Maintenance:

Project:  Pilot Training Management System

Summary:  Pilot Training Management System (TMS) automates the pilot training programs from creating complex course curriculums to optimal scheduling of the planned training events using advanced optimization algorithms for the best utilization of resources –aircrafts, simulators, CBTs and instructors to reduce total training operational cost. 
TMS contains the different modules -Records, Curriculum, Scheduling, Grading, Reports, Settings and Help. In Records, the basic and advanced details of resources such as trainees (qualifications, address and etc), instructors (qualification, address and etc) and devices (make, type, capacity and etc) are managed. The curriculum is to be built with different tasks in each lesson for all modules from basic to advanced courses. Each lesson would contain tasks on the specified devices for a given duration with the qualified instructors. The trainees are registered with different curriculums based on the requirements such their license/qualification expiry, aircraft type to fly and etc. The scheduling module allocates the devices and instructors to the lessons of registered courses on a weekly and monthly basis using advanced optimization tools. The scheduled lessons are to be graded by the instructors as per GCA – Civil Aviation guidance. The training academy administrators, instructors and trainees can access multiple reports for trainee, devices, instructors, scheduling and grading

Responsibilities: 
Complete end to end development of various new modules according to client requirements. 
Troubleshooting issues in the various modules. 
Continuous interaction with clients for better productivity. 
Patch preparation and code deployment by preparing Release Notes. 
Research and feasibility checking for new implementations. 
Communicate issues and progress to team lead.

Environment:  Eclipse,Git,Java 1.7,Maven,Spring,Hibernate, HTML,Junit, Oracle 11g, log4j



 

EDUCATION

B.Tech (ECE) from Pydah college of engineering in the year 2016.
Completed Intermediate (M.P.C) from the Chaitanya Junior college.
Completed S.S.C from the Board of S.S.C of Andhra Pradesh.