PRADIP RAYBHAN VETAL
Mumbai - 9511809298

pradipvetal7@gmail.com - https://www.linkedin.com/in/pradip-raybhan-vetal-227797104


Data Scientist with 7 years of experience building and deploying end to end AI solutions, specializing in Generative AI, RAG agents, and multi-agent systems. Proficient in LangChain, LangGraph, LangSmith, and NVIDIA’s AI stack (Triton, Riva, NIM, NeMo, BotMaker). Skilled in fine-tuning LLMs and deploying scalable AI/ML solutions on Azure, GCP and AWS.

Experience

Quantiphi Analytics Solutions	Mumbai, MH
Senior MLE	Aug 2022 - Present
Client: Pharmaceutical organization

Developed 3 specialized multi-agent AI workflows targeting:
Literature Review: Automating research synthesis and citation generation.
Consumer Solutions: Enhancing customer support through intelligent query handling and product matching.
Clinical Trials: Optimizing trial matching and eligibility analysis
Implemented using LangGraph and LangChain, enabling modular, scalable, and dynamic agent orchestration
Served 5,000+ users, streamlining processes and accelerating decision-making across domains
Delivered estimated cost savings of $3.4 million, while significantly reducing time to insight and action.
LDesigned a reusable generic agent template, applicable to over 500 internal use cases, accelerating AI solution development and deployment organization-wide.
Integrated Human-in-the-Loop (HITL) feedback, allowing real-time user intervention to improve accuracy and trust.
Built an automated agent evaluation framework: Leveraged LLMs as evaluators ("LLM as a Judge"). Combined with traditional performance metrics. Used results to improve agents via reinforcement learning.
Deployed on Microsoft Azure, utilizing NVIDIA Triton Inference Server for efficient, production-grade model serving.
Client: Telecom Organization

Developed the Multi agent AI system(MAS) for the leading telecom operator in North America.

MAS was created to respond to the queries of the technicians on the field using the Langchain, Langgraph and RAG.
Implemented solution is having cost reduction by 1/4th as well as helping 140K+ users.
Fine tuned the LLMs(Llama 3.1) for the domain adaptation using LoRA and QLoRA techniques which exceed the benchmark result of OpenAI LLMs.
At start the client was relying on the OpenAI GPT models which were costing around
$1.5Mil/month which has been reduced to $600K with on premises deployment of fine tuned models.
Developed the Conversation Bot using the NVIDIA Botmaker for the Fieldops technicians with tech stack of NVIDIA RIVA, Triton, NIM and NeMo.
Developed backend Platform for deployment using the NVIDIA triton inference server which has reduced latency of document processing to 1/10th.
Developed the Speech AI service using the NVIDIA RIVA with Speech to text, translation, text to Speech, profanity filter and PII filter.
Client: Aerospace Defence

Designed and Developed the Semantic answer search using the RAG base architecture to answer the queries on the technical documentation of the maintenance of aircraft.
Client was using the lexical search to answer the queries which were having high latency and low accuracy.
Developed RAG solution improved the document accuracy to 92%+ and latency has been reduced to 1 sec for the 300K+ of documents.
Designed solutions include Fientuned retrievers(using GPL), Rankers and LLM(light weight).


Sonyo - Sutherland INC.	Mumbai, MH
AI Engineer.	March 2022 - Aug 2022

Developed an end to end solution for assessment and evaluation platform for an Edtech organization. Implemented solution saved time for creating assessment and evaluating and generating scorecards with accuracy of 96%.
Solution was implemented using the AWS cloud services and using the Retrievers, generator for answer generation and encoder for classifications.


Addvic Tech pvt. LTD	Pune, MH
Associate Data Scientist	Oct 2020 - Mar 2022
Trained a deep-learning based anomaly detection model for X-rays which was used to automate the cleaning of large datasets.
Created internal web application for the data annotation and oversaw an annotation team to collect data and subsequently developed a transformer based model for classification and

topic wise abstractive summarization of X-ray reports that achieved significantly better performance than existing methods.
Designed and developed an inference pipeline to containerize and deploy models.
Deployed and benchmarked models on AKS performed cost estimation and optimization with automated deployment using terraform and GitHub actions.


Wipro pvt. LTD	Chennai, TN
Project Engineer.	Jun 2017 - Aug 2019
Developed the segregation of commodities solution for the e-commerce platform where commodity segregation was done to reduce the search time for the customers and to increase engagement.
Sales increase was observed by 13% in the first quarter of deployment of the solution.

Skills


Python, bash script, Multi agent system, conversation bots, RAG, LLM prompt, LLM finetuning, LLM Instruction tuning,GCP, Dialogue flow, Azure, AWS, pytorch, celery, Langsmith, langchain, Langgraph, OCR, GEN AI, MLOPS, rest API, Fast API, CI/CD, Docker, Kubernetes, SQL, flask, Jira, Gitlab, CUDA, Omniverse, Speech synthesis, Translation, Speech recognition, LoRA, QLoRA, Tensorflow.

Education


RCOEM - RTMNU University.	Nagpur, MH

Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics Design Technology.	June 2016 Award: Gold Medalist for 2016 batch with 8.86 CGPA.
Course work: Python, VLSI, Economics, Chip design, Telecom Network, etc.

Awards


Versatile force in Data Science and beyond-2025 - Quantiphi
One for All 2024- Quantiphi
Sidekick 2024 - Quantiphi.
Data Wizard 2019- Wipro
Justice league 2022 - Quantiphi.