 

 

 

S.S.P.M COE (Mumbai University) 2010-2014 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

  SKILLS 

Power Apps & Power Automate 

Microsoft SharePoint 

Copilot Studio Agent 

AI Builder 

API / Microsoft Graph API 

Azure DevOps 

Dynamics 365 Finance & 

Operations 

Microsoft SQL 

Power BI JavaScript, 

HTML, CSS 

CERTIFICATION 

Microsoft PL - 900 
Microsoft Azure Fundamental 
Microsoft Power Up Badge 

in  

and  

SharePoint  

digital transformation across Banking, Finance and HR domain. Skilled 

Power   Platform  
 
in Power Apps (Canvas Apps & Model Driven Apps), Power Automate, AI Builder, 
Azure Services, and Copilot Studio. Proven track record of reducing manual 
interventions by up to 70% through intuitive apps, approval workflows, and multi-
system integrations (SQL, APIs, Dynamics 365, Azure) 

specializing 

Developer  

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 

BDO INDIA 

 

Senior Associate 

OCT 2023 - PRESENT 

  Automated  Client  acceptance  with  Power  Apps,  Automate,  and  AI  Builder, 
embedding  legal  checks  and  compliance  validations  and  reduced  onboarding 
time by 35%. 

 Build an Agents using Copilot Studio for IT Helpdesk, HR Policy, Internal Support 

& Employee Self-Service, providing real-time answers to employee. 

  Delivered  Employee  Onboarding  &  Appraisal  System  in  HR  with  SharePoint 
Online, Power Apps and Power Automate, streamlining KRA/KPI submissions, 
automating review cycles, and cutting appraisal processing time by 50%. for both 
Employees and Partners. Delivered Entity Transfer transformation, automating 
approvals, digitizing legal workflows. 
Automated corporate Travel request flows with Power Automate + SQL + Q2T 
(MakeMyTrip)  API  integration,  allowing  multi-stage  approval  workflows  and 

booking notifications.  
  Provided  hands-on  mentoring  and  knowledge  transfer  to  junior  developers  on 
Power Platform development standards, ALM  pipelines, and deployment  best 
practices. 

  Continuously  explored  and  implemented  new  Microsoft  ecosystem  features  to 

 

   

B.E. - Computer Engineering 

enhance solution performance and reduce manual effort. 

 
 

SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
MAY 2021 - OCT 2023 

counterfeit and mutilated notes as per RBI audit standards. Used Power Apps + 
SharePoint for secure data entry, approval workflows, and status tracking. 

 Developed a RBI - Currency Notes 
record 

Tracker  System 

to 

LINGUISTIC ABILITIES   Developed automation for RBI audit log tracking across sensitive 
banking operations using Power Automate. Cut down audit prep 

English 

effort by 50%. 

 

Hindi    Designed  a  Mobile  Reimbursement  System    for  employees  to  submit  and  validate  monthly  phone  bill  claims,  Automated 

Marathi  uploads,  and  approval  workflows  using  Power  Apps,  SharePoint  Lists,  and  Power  Automate 
  Drove  continuous 
improvement by adopting emerging Microsoft Power OTHER ACTIVITY Platform features and tools to enhance scalability and 
business value. 

eligibility checks, bill 

Jeevanvidya Mission (Volunteer) 

Playing Badminton & Carrom 

  5th March 1993 

 

 

Capgemini 

Consultant 

AUGUST 2018 - MAY 2021 

 

and  

SharePoint   Online   modernization  

migration 
Implemented  
projects, including content restructuring, metadata optimization, and automation 
of document lifecycle management. 
Investigated  and  resolved  system  bugs,  incidents,  and  client-reported  issues  for 
SharePoint and Power Platform Projects 
Partnered  with  technical  architects  and  functional  consultants  to  design 
scalable,  secure,  and  maintainable  Power  Platform  solutions  aligned  with 
enterprise standards. 

 

Led  mentoring  and  structured  knowledge-transfer 
developers. 

initiatives 

for 

junior 

Software Developer 

FEB 18 - AUGUST 2018 

 Conducted hands-on exploration of Microsoft ecosystem including SharePoint on-
premise  and  Online,  Azure  Portal,  and  Dynamics  CRM,  evaluating  POC-level 
integration, security. 

 

 

 

Started in a learning capacity and evolved into an independent 

 

Trainee ⟶ Jr. Software Developer 

NOV. 2015 - JAN 2018 

Annet Technology 

Started  as  a  trainee  and  quickly  transitioned  to  contributing  to  a  SharePoint 
branding and layout customization project. 
Enhanced both custom and out-of-box SharePoint portals using SSOM, CSOM, 
HTML,  CSS,  and  JavaScript  to  align  with  corporate  branding  and  improve  user 
experience. 
 Gained hands-on experience with SharePoint  versions such as  2010/2013/2016, 

InfoPath Form, Master Pages, and client-side scripting. 

