Prashant Deshmukh
Email ID:- deshmukhprashant1504@gmail.com Phone No:- 9569124186

Profile Summary
Over 9 years of total professional experience, including more than 7 years specializing in Artificial Intelligence (AI), with expertise in Machine Learning (ML), Deep Learning (DL), Natural Language Processing (NLP), Computer Vision (CV), and Generative AI using Large Language Models (LLMs), Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), and Prompt Engineering.
Experienced in the insurance and finance domains, successfully addressing real-world challenges with innovative AI solutions.
Worked with LLMs such as GPT, LLaMA, Mistral AI, and Zephyr, utilizing RAG techniques.
Built various NLP solutions using transformer architectures including BERT, LayoutLMv2, DocTR, Donut, as well as tools like Spacy, NER and NLTK.
Developed multiple Computer Vision projects using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) with Keras, TensorFlow, PyTorch, and OpenCV.
Strong time management and ability to work under pressure to meet deadlines.
Experienced in end-to-end project delivery, including requirements gathering, design, implementation, and documentation.
Skilled in mentoring new team members and supporting their onboarding and growth.
Proven ability to work both as an individual contributor and as an effective team player.

Work Experience
Persistent Systems Limited - Nagpur, India – Feb 2024 to till date Engineering Lead
Designed and developed an end-to-end document processing pipeline using AWS services, integrating LLMs with RAG architecture and a vector database for classification, entity extraction, and metadata validation across multiple business lines.
Implemented a taxonomy-driven approach for dynamic prompt generation, improving document classification, entity extraction, and table parsing for enhanced scalability.
Developed a framework for processing ACORD forms to extract specific sections and field values using regular expressions.

ARC Document Solutions - Kolkata, India – June 2023 to Jan 2024 Senior Software Engineer
Responsible for adding intelligence through AI techniques to the existing products of the company.
Implementing question answering from the documents using RAG (retrieval augmented generation) techniques.
Involved in creating the vector embedding and vector database to implement

similarity search operations using transformer architectures.
Responsible for implementing generative models to classify documents, document layout parsing, extract key-value pairs and name-entity relations.
Involved in the OCR pipeline for valuable data extraction from various documents using Tesseract, EasyOCR, DocTR, and TrOCR.
Responsible for transferring knowledge about CNN, deep learning and machine learning to the interns.

Ewarn System Pvt. Ltd.- Rourkela, India – Jan 2021 to Apr 2023 Team Lead
Lead a team of five members to deploy deep learning models (YOLO, SSD) on edge computing devices (Nvidia Jetson Tx2, Nano, Raspberry Pi).
Responsible for the product roadmap, strategy, and planning for an intrusion detection system, criminal activity recognition system and automatic vehicle detection system using deep learning object detection models.
Responsible for writing research articles and providing training on computer vision.

National Institute of Technology- Rourkela, India – Sep 2017 to Dec 2020 Senior Research Fellow
Involved in designing and implementing various products under the project titled ‘Intelligent Surveillance Data Retriever for Smart City Applications’ sponsored by IMPRINT India.
Mathematical models designed for vehicle detection, traffic density estimation, and traffic switching signaling for heterogeneous traffic.
Responsible for designing and interfacing a wireless adaptive traffic controller with vehicle detection cameras.

Central Scientific Instruments Org.- Chandigarh, India – Nov 2016 to March 2017 Junior Research Fellow
Responsible for motion control circuit design for motorized Wheelchair and interface input devices (joystick, 4D system LCD, tablet) with the main controller.
Analyze, hardware testing, and resolve issues with application and associated input interfaces.

Indivar Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd.- Mohali, India – Sep 2015 to Oct 2016 Junior Embedded Engineer
Developed surveillance system with motion detection, home automation system and interactive attendance system using Raspberry pi.
Developed smart irrigation system, line follower robot using Arduino.