

PRAVEEN KUMAR SHARMA
LEAD SOFTWARE ENGINEER







CONTACT

 +91 9632374050

 samsharma240996@gmail.com

Electronics city, Bengaluru #560100
https://www.linkedin.com/in/pra veensharma911/

EDUCATION
CAREER OBJECTIVE

Accomplished and solutions-focused Software Lead with over 12 years of experience in developing, architecting and delivering high-performance enterprise applications.
Adept at leading agile development teams, driving full-stack Java-based solutions, and implementing scalable microservices architectures and cloud native applications.


WORK EXPERIENCE




2009 - 2012
KPMG LLP
Specialist
June 2025 - Sep 2025

ACHARYA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ( UNIVERSITY- VTU BELGAUM )

 Master of Computer Application

2006 - 2009
CENTRAL COLLEGE OF IT
( UNIVERSITY - PT.RSU RAIPUR )
 Provide hands-on technical leadership and mentorship to development teams throughout the software development lifecycle (SDLC).
 Evaluate and recommend appropriate technologies, frameworks, and tools to meet project and organizational goals.

Technology Stack :
Java, Spring Boot, MySQL, GCP, Docker, Python FAISS and OCR Tesseract



Bachelor of Computer Application
Siemens Technology and Services Private Limited
Senior Lead/Associate Architect
March 2023 - June 2025




KEY SKILLS


 Java J2EE
 Spring Boot  Spring Cloud  ORM
 Microservices  Kafka
 AWS
 Azure
 Kubernetes  Angular
 Oracle  Jenkins  Docker
 Grafana Stack
 Design and architect scalable, high-availability software systems and services using modern technologies (e.g., Java, Spring Boot, Microservices, Cloud).
 Prototype and implement architectural proof-of-concepts (Proof of Concepts) to validate new technologies and design approaches.
 Own key modules end-to-end—from design and development to deployment and performance optimization.
 Lead the end-to-end design and architecture of scalable, secure, and high-performance software solutions.
 Define and enforce architecture standards, coding guidelines, and best practices across development teams.
 Evaluate and recommend appropriate technologies, frameworks, and tools to meet project and organizational goals.
Technology Stack :
Java, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, API Gateway, Kubernetes, Angular, Oracle, AWS EKS, KMS, EC2, S3, ELB, EBS, Lambda, IAM, Cloud watch, Cloud trail, Grafana - Prometheus stack, Azure App service and Functions






CERTIFICATIONS

 AWS Certified Solutions Architect
(May 2022)

 SDAT Certified - Architect certification



Siemens Technology and Services Private Limited
Lead Software Engineer




July 2019 - March 2023

with Siemens

(May 2020)
Lead the design, development, and deployment of high-quality, scalable, and	maintainable	software	solutions	across	the	full	software

 Infosys Certified Java Developer (internal certification)
(Mar 2016)


ACHIEVEMENTS

 Instant Puruskar for RfP preparation and project planning for EDI Energy

 Instant Puruskar Award for IOT POC and project execution

 Star Award in IC category for two consecutive years for excellence in module deliveries
development lifecycle.
 Serve as a technical expert and hands-on contributor, writing efficient, well-tested, and clean code using modern technologies and best practices.
 Collaborate closely with product managers, architects, QA, DevOps, and cross-functional teams to translate business requirements into technical solutions.
 Troubleshoot complex technical issues in development and production environments, performing root cause analysis and implementing long- term fixes.
  Containerization and redesign of legacy applications

Technology Stack :
Java, Spring Web MVC, Active MQ, OpenShift, Primefaces , Oracle
Splunk & Grafana - Prometheus


Engage Team awarded with ‘Most Spirited Team’ award
Siemens Technology and Services Private Limited
Associate Consultant
Nov 2017 - July 2019




LANGUAGES



 English  Hindi
 Responsible for identification of new areas of work and improvement with Partners directly and preparation of the roadmap

 Responsible for development activities of 10+ projects as IC (Core security and Authentication/Authorization related)

Technology Stack :
Java, Spring Web MVC, Primefaces , JSF, Active-MQ & Oracle



INTERESTS AND ACTIVITIES
TCS Limited
IT Analyst
Apr 2017 - Nov 2017


Cricket Volleyball Reading
 Responsible for defect free development of the deliverables for client JPMC.
 Responsible for technical feasibility analysis and creation of POCs for the new changes/upgrades
Technology Stack :
Java, Spring Web MVC, Primefaces , JSF, Active-MQ & MySQL



Infosys Limited
Technology Analyst

Oct 2014 - Mar 2017

  Responsible for defect free development of the deliverables for project Engage.
  Responsible for leading the Engage offshore team.
  Responsible for Documentation activity from ERS to TDD creation.   Responsible for technical feasibility analysis and creation of POCs
Technologies Stack-
Java, Spring MVC, JPA, Hibernate, Docker, Terraform






Infosys Limited
System Engineer
Sep 2012 - Oct 2014


  Responsible for defect free development of the deliverables for project Engage.
  Responsible for providing KT sessions to the new team members.
  Responsible for development, testing and deployment of the Engage Legacy application.



Technology Stack :
Java, Spring Web MVC, Primafaces, JSF, Servlets and Web logic





