
                               Priyanka Dubey
         Phone:  +91-8123808269     Mail: dubey.priyanka2@gmail.com


                                  Objective


To work in an organization, where my knowledge, skills and calibre are best
utilized to contribute towards the organizational growth.


                          Quick Skill Set overview



Experience:                   11+ Years
Primary Skills:                   Java 8, REST API, Microservices,
                  Cassandra DB, Postgres, Spring Boot, MVC, DB2, jQuery,
                  JSP, Agile Scrums, Sprint Planning, Google Cloud, CI-CD
Concepts:                     Multi-Threading, Operating Systems Internals,
                  Database, SQL, Oracle, Cassendra, Postgres.
Domains:                        Banking, Retail
Operating Systems:       Windows
Version Control & SCM:   GitHub, SVN
Bug Tracking tool:         GitHub, Jira, Mantis
SDLC Model:                   V-Model, Agile Methodology


                               Work Experience




Company Name: Tata Consultancy Services, Bangalore, Karnataka
Designation: Assistant Consultant
Domain: Retail
Duration: May 2022 – Present

The product store console provides API driven mechanism to drive the
logistics routing algorithm to efficiently provide the shortest and most
cost optimized path for the given source and destination location. The
product considers the different types of stores availability and their
relationship while optimizing the route path. The product uses the latest
cutting technology framework like Azure Cloud, Cassandra, Postgres,
microservices, REST API and run in a docker containers.


Company Name: Wells Fargo, Bangalore, Karnataka
Designation: Senior Software Analyst
Domain: Banking
Duration: July 2013 – May 2022

Worked on the varied bank cheque transaction application handling the
cheque image scans and exception generated during the process. All these
applications are part of Virtual Image processing and Exception Resolution
system (VIPERS).

Company Name: Tecnotree Convergence Private Limited, Bangalore, Karnataka
Designation: Software Engineer
Domain: Telecom
Duration: May 2012 – Feb 2013

Briefly worked with Tecnotree in their Unified Product Cataloguing
application. This application holds the product offering of the telecom
operators and provide unified view of the products from one or more source
systems. It enables the operator to create a unique combination of offers
to up-sell, cross-sell specific to market conditions, geography of the
subscriber.






                                  Projects


Project Name: Store Console
Company Name: Tata Consultancy Services
Client Name: Genuine Parts Company

The store console product defines the logistic routing mechanism for the
transportation of goods to-and-fro the various stores of the GPC company.
It runs DFS for the given source and destination and optimize the route
considering the various factors.

Project Name: Exception Processing System
Company Name: Wells Fargo

EPS was introduced to handle the exception based introduced due to the
distributed capture process in the cheque processing system. This
application allows the monitoring control and balancing of the outstanding
exception and gives the ability to find out the actual paper which is
stored throughout the enterprise. One can also create the manual
adjustments and local printing of the advice notices.

Project Name: Electronic Transactions
Company Name: Wells Fargo

eTran is a web-based application that is designed to replace the paper
tickets for the internally generated transactions. It uses the same data as
on the paper and posts the validated transactions to GL, Hogan, Recon Plus
and Branch Settlement Systems.

Responsibilities:

  1) Involve in requirement gathering and analysis of existing system.
  2) Worked on Spring boot version migration and enhancement.
  3) Worked on writing the junit test cases
  4) Implemented holiday feature in the system
   5) Involved in work related to bug fixe ad defect resolving.
   6) Worked on computation part to handle the correct route and the path.
  7) Worked on server-side input validation
  8) Worked on to do the full and delta load and validate the data.
  9) Worked on to add new country and tenant in the system.
 10) Handling and managing the sprint planning by following the agile
     methodologies.
 11) Struts to spring MVC migration of eTrans application.
 12) Converted eTran application build from Ant to Gradle.
  13) Configure Apache configuration with Spring MVC
  14) Involved in creating a reporting tool for transaction data. [User can
      get the transaction data and view it right there in the UI or can
      export it to excel or CSV file]
 15) Involved in Store the transaction history for 365 days. Store the data
     based on the sources from the table on hourly basis.
 16) Worked Redis memory where saved data stored in multiple regions
 17) Automated the mechanism to identify the incorrect and unconsolidated
     batches yet to send to downstream
 18) Worked on Connect:Direct to NDM the file to Windows and Linux
     machines.
 19) Worked on to save data in Google clould storage and BT.


                            Academic Credentials


Master of Computer Applications
Oriental College of Management, Bhopal (RGTU, Bhopal) in 2010.
Bachelor of Computer Applications

P. G. College (BU, Bhopal) in 2006



