
RAGINI PARAMATI
Hyderabad 9948635899
paramatiragini@gmail.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/ragini-reddy-47278830a

CAREER SUMMARY
Lead Software Engineer	
Senior Software Engineer with a robust background in machine learning, data science, and artificial intelligence, Seven years with relevant experience I IT Industry. Proven ability to deliver innovative solutions that meet client needs, leveraging expertise in predictive modeling and AI technologies.
Skilled in data visualization and communicating insights to technical and non-technical stakeholders.
Quick to learn and adapt to new technologies to meet customer requirements.

AREA OF EXPERTISE
Technical


Python
AWS Cloud
CNN
Deep Learning
Tensor flow
Numpy
Keras
BERT
Generative AI
SQL
Seaborn
Random Forest
Pandas
GPT
Data Cleansing
GPT
Machine Learning
Data Structures
NLP
Data Cleaning
Pytorch
Django
Feature Engineering



PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
VIRTUSA Consulting Services Pvt. Ltd.	25 August 2022 - Present
Senior Software Engineer	
Led initiatives in developing and integrating large language models (LLMs) using Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) for intelligent document processing.
Used different chunking strategies to improve the retrieval accuracy.
Used different prompt engineering techniques to improve the accuracy of the responses.
Applied RAG Triad metrics to evaluate and optimize model performance.
Entire process is automated to experiment with different strategies, which helped to test the ideas in faster and efficient manner.
Used data structures, garbage collection and threads in python.
Spearheaded a Proof of Concept (POC) project on intelligent code agents for automated code correction based on feedback analysis.
Championed a customer sentiment analysis project using LLMs to predict sentiment across various channels.

AIZANT GLOBAL ANALYTICS	18 May 2018 – 22 August 2022
Machine Learning Engineer	
Key achievements / role
Solubility Prediction in organic solvents and water

Built a machine learning model to predict the solubility of a drug in organic solvents and water.
Responsible for collecting data for aqueous solvent, Acetone, Benzene and Ethanol.
Used Data curation and Data Pre-processing followed by Data visualization.
Built multiple machine learning methods like MLR, SVR and ANN.
Used few statistical methods and validation metrics like R2_score, RMSE, AIC and BIC to calculate the accuracy of the model.
Successfully deployed the model in client server using IIS Server and Flask web framework.
Publishing a research paper Under the guidance of Prof. Dr. V. V. Hara Gopal on solubility prediction of aqueous and organic solvents using machine learning for pharma industry


EDUCATION
B. Tech, Electronics and Communications (2018) (GPA: 8/10)
JNTU University, Hyderabad, Telangana


CERTIFICATIONS

AWS Certified Machine Learning Specialty
Deeplearning.ai by Coursera