Rakesh MR
Location: Bangalore	Mobile: +91 9739311920	 Email:rakeshranganath93@gmail.com        LinkedIn: linkedin		Github: github
Summary

AI & Data professional with 9 years of experience in Agentic AI, Generative AI (Gen AI) and Business Intelligence, Skilled in designing multi-agent systems adept at combining NLP, RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation). Strong background in building intelligent agents and delivering BI solutions. Proven expertise in Analytics, conversational AI and enterprise reporting with a focus on reducing operational toil, accelerating insights, and enabling data- driven decisions.


Skills


Experience
Senior Consultant | Infosys, Bangalore | Jan 2025 –
Developed and maintained Python-based applications, AI/ML models and data processing pipelines for GenAI projects.
Knowledge of the Hugging Face (transformers, tokenizers) and Lang chain libraries.
Implemented Large Language Model (LLM) integrations, including Retrieval- Augmented Generation (RAG) pipelines and embedding-based search solutions.
Integrated AI solutions with vector databases (Faiss, Pinecone, Chroma DB).
Hands-on experience implementing RAG pipelines, embeddings and vector search solutions.
Experienced in Agentic AI frameworks such as LangGraph, Lang chain, Autogen, Crew AI.
Experience collaborating with partners, stakeholders and teams across multiple geographies and levels of the organization.
Skilled in AI-specific utilities like ChatGPT, Hugging Face Transformers.
Implementing and fine tuning the AI-generated text prompts using LLMs.
Solid understanding of Generative AI concepts, frameworks and techniques with hands-on experience in developing and deploying generative models.

Working experience with Generative AI: Gemini, OpenAI.
Collaborate with cross-functional teams, Consulting background and experience working with global clients.
Strong hands-on knowledge of Data Science and Machine Learning, including supervised learning algorithms (both Classification and Regression) such as Linear Regression, Random Forest, XGBoost, Support Vector Machines, etc, as well as unsupervised learning techniques (e.g. clustering, dimensionality reduction), Model ensemble, Generative AI models.
Proficiency in working with Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT-4, DeepSeek, Llama.
Consultant | Infosys, Bangalore | Jan 2024 – Dec 2024
Experience in building end-to-end machine learning pipelines, including data preprocessing, feature engineering, model training, evaluation, and deployment.
Experience with Natural Language Processing (NLP) and practices for continuous
integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD).
Demonstrated expertise in AI techniques (Machine learning, natural language processing, deep learning) and their applications. Experience with ML libraries such as TensorFlow, Keras, Scikit-learn.
Continuously optimize and improve forecasting models by experimenting with new algorithms, tools, and techniques. Using forecasting models to drive business decisions related to Supply chain, Demand planning, Inventory and model fine tuning. Worked closely with cross-functional teams to implement these solutions.
Developed and implemented time series forecasting models to predict future trends, demand, and performance metrics.
Evaluated model performance using appropriate metrics, and iterate to optimize accuracy and efficiency.
Familiarity with CI/CD pipelines and version control systems (Git), GitHub actions.
Knowledge of ML techniques like regression algorithms, K-NN, Naive Bayes, SVM and ensemble techniques like Random Forest, AdaBoost etc.
Knowledge in unsupervised learning algorithms using Neural networks and Deep- Learning.
Staying current with emerging trends, tools, and best practices in data science, machine learning and continuously seek opportunities to improve processes and outcomes.
Proficiency in using query languages, such as SQL.
Develop and implement AI and ML models utilizing OpenAI technologies, prompt engineering and Generative AI.
Developed technical documentation and led training sessions to enhance team proficiency with industry tools and analytics, boosting team efficiency by 25%.

Consultant | Infosys, Bangalore | 2021 – 2023
Worked on Oracle Fusion cloud reporting (BIP, OTBI).
Developed report for Oracle Supply chain (SCM), Finance modules (AP, AR, GL).
Worked on new development, Enhancement, Change request (CR).
Prepared Technical design documents for the requirements, Effort estimate, Unit testing, Functional testing, Business testing.
Was responsible to maintain and migrate the catalogue of reports across the instance
i.e. Development, Testing, Preproduction instance with 0 downtime.
Was involved in Requirement Gathering with Clients and business Analysts and document and take signoff and develop the reports.
Effectively communicated with stakeholders, Cross functional Teams, Managers about the estimates and delivery.
Managed 4 resources in the team and acted as anchor between Business and our development team.

IT Specialist | McAfee India, Bangalore | 2019 – 2021
Developing the Oracle OBIEE rpd reports and performing post deployment validation.
Developed metadata repository using OBIEE Administration tool in Physical, Business Model and Mapping and Presentation Layer.
Effectively interacted with the end users for requirement gathering and defined
requirement specifications document.
Designed and developed various Interactive Dashboards and reports with drilldowns, filters, and prompts.
Created new logical columns, dimensional hierarchy, calculated measures, and aggregate mappings in the BMM layer as per the business requirements.
Worked with Business Analysts and DBAs, created schedules to seed and purge
cache for cache management. Used various cache management techniques for performance tuning including configuring, defining cache parameters, cache persistence time, cache seeding and purging and event polling.
Analysed the data and developed Logical Star Schema model with consultation
from Data Modelers and Business Analysts.
Performed Unit Testing of the Repository and Web Catalogue.
Identified & Created Facts, Dimensions, and Hierarchies of the business model.
Managed security privileges for each subject area and dashboards according to
user requirements, Security by authenticating against the LDAP.
Maintain Development, Test and Production mapping migration using Repository.
Attended weekly meetings with BA and Stakeholders for project status updates.
Developed Reports and Dashboards with different Analytics Views including Pivot Table, Chart.

Software Analyst | Oracle India pvt ltd, Bangalore | 2016 – 2019
Developing the Oracle OBIEE rpd reports and performing post deployment validation.
Worked on creating Ad hoc report/Dashboard as per the customer/User request.
Worked on creating Direct Database request reports.
Performing Unit testing for the OBIEE rpd, and Informatica Workflows, Mappings, sessions in Stage environment before migrating to Production.
Creating Usage tracking of all reports being run and queries on the database, Worked closely with DBA and users.
Creating daily, weekly, monthly reports as per the business needs.
Attended weekly meetings with Business Analyst and Stakeholders for project status updates.
Deployed the Informatica Workflows, Mappings, Session etc.
Scheduling the ETL jobs in Control-M Tool for scheduled execution.
Education
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (Affiliated to VTU), Bangalore
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Electrical & Electronics Engineering	2011 – 2015
Certification	
Oracle AI Vector Search Certified Professional link
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure 2025 Certified Generative AI Professional link