Python Automation in Azure Cloud & web scraping
Prem Kumar K
Mobile : +91 9677944561
Email : premkumarangceb@gmail.com
Linkedin url : www.linkedin.com/in/prem-kumar-5551ab289
OBJECTIVE
To leverage my specialized expertise in Azure ETL Automation and Python development with web
scraping to drive innovative technological solutions and contribute to cutting-edge data-driven projects.
PROFILE SUMMARY
 Highly skilled Python Developer with 5.4 years of comprehensive IT experience, specializing in
advanced Python Django web development and web scraping techniques.
 Designed and implemented end-to-end data pipelines, utilizing Azure Data Factory, to transform raw data
into actionable insights.
 Employed Azure Databricks and PySpark for advanced data processing and analytics, ensuring optimal
performance and scalability.
 Spearheaded the development and implementation of storage solutions, utilizing Azure Data Lake Gen2,
and Azure SQL. These efforts resulted in a 50% reduction in data retrieval time and improved overall
system performance.
 Expert in designing and implementing robust web scraping solutions using cutting-edge Python
libraries including BeautifulSoup, Requests, and Selenium WebDriver.
 Developed models for product tracking, user management, and vendor integration using Django
ORM.
 Created a unique product ID generation system for users purchasing directly from companies,
enabling seamless tracking of product services and insurance.
 Django ORM: Used for efficient database interactions, complex queries, and relationships
between models (e.g., Product, User, Vendor, Insurance).
 Django REST Framework (DRF): Built RESTful APIs for vendor integration and external
system communication.
 Proficient in extracting, transforming, and analyzing data from diverse web sources, creating
sophisticated data collection and processing frameworks.
 Advanced skills in Python ecosystem including Django, data manipulation with Pandas, and
integration with various databases and APIs.
 Experienced in end-to-end project development, from requirements gathering to deployment, with
a strong focus on creating efficient, maintainable Python solutions.
ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION
BE ECE 81 % , Government College of Engg , krishnagiri in 2007-2011
HSC with 89 % , Bishop Ubagraswamy higher Secondary School in 2005- 2007
10 th with 92 % , Govt higher Secondary School in 2002-2004
TECHINICAL SKILLS
Cloud & Deployment : Azure ADF, DataBricks, ADLS, AWS EC2, AWS S3, Docker
Programming Languages : Python, JavaScript (backend integration with basics), HTML, CSS
Data Processing & Analysis : DataBricks, PySpark, Pandas,
Web Frameworks : Django, Django REST Framework
Scraping Tools : Selenium, Beautiful soup, Requests
Databases : Azure SQl, Django ORM, MySQL
Development Tools / IDEs : VS Code, IDLE
Tracking Tools : Zoho sprint
containerization Tool : Docker
Testing Frameworks : Unit test,
Version control : Git, Git Hub
Development Methodologies: MVT architecture, Agile Process
API Testing : Postman
EXPERIENCE
Shravas Technologies IT India Pvt Ltd.
Software Developer 08 th May 2025 to present
Mahendra Next Wealth IT India Private Limited, Salem
Python Developer 10 th November 2023 to 7th May 2025
ADM Developers, Coimbatore
Programmer Analyst 12th Aug 2019 to 28 th October 2023
PROJECTS
Project 1 – ADM Developers, Coimbatore
Project Name : Reg Insurance Product (Product Management and Tracking System)
Technologies : Python, Django, DRF,, MySQL, AWS (S3, EC2)
Backend Development
 Designed and implemented a comprehensive Insurance product management system using Django and
Django REST Framework
 Developed complex data models to track product lifecycle including insurance, warranty, and Annual
Maintenance Contracts (AMC)
 Created sophisticated user authentication and role-based access control systems for different
stakeholders (users, vendors, and companies)
 Implemented automated calculation systems for product resale values based on service history and
condition
 Built notification systems using Django signals and Celery for time-sensitive warranty expiration
Project 2 - Mahendra Next Wealth IT India Pvt Ltd, Salem
Project Name : Web Scraping & Data Automaion in Azure & API Development
Technologies : Python, Azure Data Factory, DataBricks, Django, Selenium,
Tools used : VS code, Git, IIS server, MySQL, Postman,
Web Scraping and Data Automation
 Designed and implemented end-to-end data pipelines, utilizing Azure Data Factory, to transform raw data
into actionable insights.
 Employed Azure Databricks and PySpark for advanced data processing and analytics, ensuring optimal
performance and scalability.
 Spearheaded the development and implementation of storage solutions, utilizing Azure Data Lake
Gen2, and Azure SQL. These efforts resulted in a 50% reduction in data retrieval time and improved
overall system performance.
 Designed and implemented sophisticated web scraping solutions using advanced Python libraries
including BeautifulSoup, Requests, and Selenium WebDriver.
 Developed robust data extraction frameworks capable of scraping complex websites with multiple
layers of pagination and dynamic content.
 Created custom scraping scripts to extract structured data from diverse sources, including Startup
company websites, financial websites and Insurance company websites.
 Implemented intelligent scraping techniques to handle:
 Dynamic content loaded via JavaScript
 Websites with complex authentication mechanisms
 Anti-scraping protection and rate limiting
 Developed proxy rotation and user-agent switching mechanisms to ensure consistent and
uninterrupted data collection.
Project 3 – Shravas Technologies IT India Pvt Ltd, Bangalore
Python Development and Data Processing in Azure Cloud
 Designed and implemented efficient data pipelines using Azure Data Factory, and Databricks to
transform raw data from source to mart layers, resulting in a 40% reduction in processing time and
improved decision- making.
 Spearheaded the development and implementation of storage solutions, utilizing Azure Data Lake Gen2,
and Azure SQL. These efforts resulted in a 50% reduction in data retrieval time and improved overall
system performance.
 Built end-to-end Python applications with focus on scalability, performance, and maintainability.
 Developed data processing pipelines to transform raw scraped data into clean, structured formats
using Pandas and NumPy.
 Created automated workflows for:
 Data cleaning and preprocessing
 Advanced data transformation
 Statistical analysis and visualization
 Implemented efficient data storage solutions using:
 SQL databases (MySQL, SQLite)
 Excel file and JSON file formats
 Developed RESTful APIs using Django Rest framework to expose scraped and processed data.
DECLARATION
I here by confirmed that the given above details are true to the best of my knowledge.
Place:
Date: (K . PREM KUMAR)