 Vignesh Ramakrishnan
Mobile: 9787552457
Email: vigneshr.mudoms@gmail.com
Linkedin: www.linkedin.com/in/vignesh-ramakrishnan-datascientist
Summary:
 Data Scientist with over 11 years of experience, including 9+ years of expertise in Machine Learning, Data Science, and Artificial Intelligence, and around 2 years specializing in Generative AI (GenAI) and Large Language Models (LLM). Proficient in Python, R, SQL, GenAI, AWS, and GCP Cloud, with a proven track record of delivering actionable insights, analytics, and business intelligence to drive informed decision-making.
Certifications:
AWS Certified Machine Learning Specialty
Google Certified Professional Machine Learning Engineering.
Complete Machine Learning & Data Science Bootcamp 2021 – Udemy.
Applying Machine Learning and AI Services on AWS - Cloud Academy.
Data Science with Python - Besant Technologies.
Accomplishment:
Developed an ML model based on Cost optimization for a Life science client and it helped them to reduce more than 40% of their cost for the Cloud Data Load using python.
Provided predictive analytics such as machine learning and NLP techniques using python for AutoDoc Project for a Life Science client on Sagemaker. My solution is effective, where the 3weeks and 5 members process is reduced to 3 hours and 1 member.
Forecasted Churn model using python for a Banking Customer and got an appreciation for the best ​tailor-made churn model to manage consumers’ preferences and drive loyalty​.
AI/ML/GenAI Projects:
Q&A Chatbot: Developed an advanced Q&A chatbot leveraging a Large Language Model(LLM) powered by AWS Bedrock and Langchain, utilizing Retrieval-Augumented Generation (RAG) technique. The core model is based on Anthropic Claude Sonnet 3.5,coupled with Amazon Titan Embedding for embedding the data. For efficient data and storage, integrated AWS Opensearch as our vector base solution using python.
AI Multi-Agent System for Web Search and Financial Analysis:Developed a sophisticated multi-agent system using Groq models, DuckDuckGo, and YFinanceTools to enable intelligent web search and real-time financial analysis using python. The agents were fine-tuned to present source-backed insights and structured data in tables. With OpenAI integration and robust environment management, the system excels in summarizing analyst recommendations and financial metrics. Key technologies used include streamlit, pdfplumber, langchain, and custom algorithms.
Cost Optimization: Built Regression, Classification and Time Series models to predict the runtime of a query and provide ML-based insights for tuning and predicting the Azure Databricks cluster usage and worker node using python.
AutoDoc: Developed an NLP-based solution using python for automating the documents for extracting and summarizing on Sagemaker.
Churn prediction: Involved in implementing Holt-Winter and Arima models to predict balance for customer assets and to predict customer churn using python.
Demand Forecasting: Implemented Linear Regression, Ridge, Lasso and Timeseries models using python to predict sales demand for the client product on Sagemaker.

Professional Experience:
Team Leam - Tech Mahindra., Bengaluru, KA- (Feb 2023–present)
Implemented GenAI and LLM-based solutions using Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) frameworks and LangChain, integrated with AWS Bedrock for model orchestration and OpenSearch for scalable vector-based retrieval using python.
Worked on AWS SageMaker, Personalize Step Function, Lambda, S3 and Glue.
Worked on Tensorflow, Pytorch,LLM, RAG,Langchain, BERT
Recommending articles to the end user, based on their interest and reading pattern.
Senior Associate - Cognizant., Bengaluru, KA -  (Apr 2021–Jan 2023)
Interacting with the client to get the requirements, ML feasibility to provide the solutions and insights for a Life Science client.
Worked on a Cost Optimization project using python to reduce the CDL infra cost. Provided ML-based insights for tuning the Databricks Cluster usage. Developed Linear Regression, KNN, SVM, Time Series, Random Forest and Logistic Regression . 
Demand Forecasting project using python to find the pattern, to forecast the fire Kidde demand throughout the year. Developed Time Series, KNN, SVM, RandomForest and Linear Regression.
Developed NLP-based AutoDoc Project using python to Automate the Documentation process. Involved in FastAPI, Spacy, Biobert, Gensim, Fuzzywuzzy Logic, HuggingFace, tesseract, and Easyocr.
Tech Lead- Wipro Ltd., Bengaluru, KA  - (Nov 2018 – Apr 2021)
Worked in determining client needs, deliverables, estimates, and feasibility for analytical projects concerning a custom study for a BFSI customer.
Worked in NLP, Random Forest and Logistic Regression Models to automate and provide insight for Agrochemical customers using python.
Developed Holt-Winters, Arima and Sarima models using python on Time Series data to forecast asset balance and Linear Regression and Timeseries model to predict query execution time.
Researcher Specialist - The Deal India Pvt. Ltd., Chennai, TN - (Oct 2015 – May 2018)
Interpret M&A and Bankruptcy data from primary and secondary sources, involved in statistical techniques and provide Business Insights
Performs data wrangling to clean and prepare datasets, and applies data modeling to structure and analyze information. 
Builds machine learning models, delivers business insights through dashboards and reports, and collaborates with stakeholders to drive data-driven decision-making and measurable business impact.
Worked on Decision Tree, Logistic Regression and Random forest

Deputy Manager- ICICI Bank Pvt. Ltd., Chennai, TN- (June 2013 – Feb 2015)
Extracted, compiled, tracked and analyzed data to generate reports.
Involved in data preprocessing and data mining.
Leveraged analytical tools to develop efficient system operations.
Education:
MBA (Finance and HR) from the University of Madras with a CGPA of 6.3 – 2013, Chennai, TN
B.E (Computer Science) from Coimbatore Institute of Engineering and Information Technology with 63% - 2008, Coimbatore, TN
HSC from SRSI MHSS, Karamadai with 66% - 2004, Coimbatore, TN
SSLC from GHSS Ooty with 69%-2002, Nilgiris, TN