SANKET UTTAM KAMBLE
Mobile – 9022202257
Email: SANKETUK57@GMAIL.COM
Experience Summary
 5+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing and Support of Data
Integration and Data Quality solutions.
 Strong hands-on experience in Informatica PowerCenter 10.5.6, IICS, Informatica Data Quality (IDQ),
CDQ, Data Governance and Informatica MDM for developing ETL and data quality frameworks.
 Practical exposure to data profiling, cleansing, validation and quality rule implementation using IDQ. Utilized strong
understanding of data integration, data governance, and SQL to support business-critical solutions.
 Proficient in Data Warehousing concepts - Star Schema, Fact & Dimension tables, Slowly Changing
Dimensions (SCD Type 1 & 2).
 Strong understanding of CDI, CAI, API Manager, and Secure Agent architecture.
 Hands-on experience in database systems like Oracle, SQL Server and Snowflake.
 Demonstrated ability to collaborate with business stakeholders and source system teams to define data governance
and data quality requirements.
 Good knowledge of data governance principles, metadata management.
 Expertise in performance tuning, reusable transformations, and automating workflows and monitoring data quality
reports.
 Perform regression testing, performance testing, and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).
 Clear understanding of SDLC/STLC – Testing & Defect lifecycle & Agile method of delivery.
 Optimize data workflows for performance, reliability, and cost-efficiency.
 Participate in sprint planning, requirement gathering, and roadmap reviews with BI Tools and Revenue Systems
teams.
 Team player with excellent communication and documentation skills.
Technical Expertise
ETL: Informatica Powercenter 10.5.6 / IICS, Informatica Data Quality (IDQ),
CDQ, Data Governance, Informatica MDM
RDBMS: Oracle 12c
Database Tools: Oracle, SQL Server, Snowflake, AWS
Tools: Informatica PC, IICS, PowerBI
Cloud & Big Data : Databricks (SQL & PySpark), Snowflake
Visualization Tools: Power BI
Languages: SQL, Python (basic)
OS & Tools: Windows, Unix, SQL Developer, Git
Page 1 of 4
Career Profile:
Dates Organization Role
07/2019 – 05/2022 USK Infotech DATABASE INTERN
06/2022 – 11/2023 Brain Vision Technology ETL DEVELOPER
01/2024 – 10/2025 Fractal Analytics DATA ENGINEER
Qualifications:
Institution Year of
Course Board /University Aggregate
Completion
(%)
BE SPPU 2022 74.97
D Y Patil School
of Engineering
HSC A.I.S.S.M.S
Maharashtra Board 2018 71.54
SSC S.S English Maharashtra Board 2016 86.80
Medium School
Intern Experience:
 Developed ETL process to load the Data from various database systems and text files into single Warehouse
Database.
 Experience in designing and developing from varied transformation logic like Router, Filter, Expression,
Aggregator, Joiner, Joiner, Union, Source Qualifier and Unconnected and connected lookups.
 Created Dimensional Tables Using SCD Type-1.
 Expertise in Oracle 11g/12c, SQL, Functions, Procedures and Materialized Views.
 Practical understanding and experience on SQL statement.
 Practical understanding and experience on SQL Joins.
 Practical understanding and experience on SQL Set Operators.
 Practical understanding and experience on SQL Sub-Query.
Project Profile #1
Customer Sanofi
Period Jan-2024 To Oct-2025
Description This project deals with the capturing policy and claim events to build a DataMart
which contains facts, dimensions and aggregated tables. Project contains the flow
from having a policy for policyholder to claiming the returns including every aspect
of the hierarchy.
Role Informatica Developer
Project Specific Tools IICS, Informatica Power center, Oracle, Snowflake, CDI, PowerBI
Page 3 of 4
Highlights Responsibilities as a Informatica Developer:
● Understanding Business requirements.
● Have created ETL mapping, sessions, Workflows as
per the requirement.
● Created Mappings using various transformations like Update Strategy,
Lookup, Router, Joiner, Aggregator, Filter, Lookup, Union and
Expression.
● Implemented slowly changing dimension (SCD) Type 1 and Type 2 for
Change data capture.
● Created, Scheduled and configured workflows and sessions using
Informatica workflow manager.
● Involved in performance tuning of Informatica mappings.
● Designed and developed Informatica Mappings and Sessions based on user
requirements and ETL rules to load data from source Flat files to target
tables.
● Contributed in Unit testing for developed mapping using sample data.
● Created Different types of Tasks and Sessions using Informatica Workflow
Designer.
● Created reusable mapplets/transformations embedding business logic.
● Used Informatica Scheduler to schedule the Informatica Jobs.
● Develop and test tasks, ensure adherence to agreed timelines, and
communicate status of tasks to team lead.
● Created Unit Test Documents.
Project Profile #2
Customer Microsoft
Period July 2022 -Nov 2023
Role Data Quality Analyst/ IICS Developer
Responsibilities • Managed end-to-end administration of IICS including user management,
role assignment, secure agent installation, configuration, and upgrades.
• Handled IICS onboarding activities for new applications across Cloud and
On-Premise environments.
• Perform detailed data profiling to identify data anomalies, patterns, nulls,
duplicates, and standardization needs..
• Monitored IICS pipelines (CDI, CDI-Elastic, Mass Ingestion, Real-time
ingestion, CDC).
• Design and implement data cleansing, parsing, standardization,
validation, and enrichment rules using Informatica CDQ.
• Optimized performance of integration tasks using best practices for
mapping and task execution.
• Provided support to developers for CDI mappings, DQ rules, synchronization
tasks, and mass ingestion frameworks.
• Define and implement enterprise data governance policies, standards, and
best practices.
• Conducted code reviews and validated performance of data integration jobs.
• Performed SQL-based validation, data profiling, and issue analysis.
• Optimized performance of integration tasks using best practices for mapping
and task execution.
• Conducted knowledge-sharing sessions for development and support teams.
Page 3 of 4
Certifications and Achievements
 Microsoft Certified: Power BI Data Analyst Associate
 Databricks Certified Associate Data Engineer
 Fractal Certified: SQL Developer
 STAR Award
 SPOT Award
Declaration
I hereby declare that the above mentioned Information is correct up to my Knowledge and I bear the
responsibility for the correctness of the above mentioned particulars.
(Sanket Uttam Kamble)
Page 4 of 4