RITWIK SHRIVASTAV E-mail: ritwik.avi@gmail.com
Mobile: +91 8267853410
Product Owner | Product Management | Agile & SAFe Practitioner LinkedIn: ritwik-shrivastav
Location: Bengaluru, India
Serving Notice Period. Last Working Date – 25th September 2026 (Immediate Joiner)
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
Results-driven Product Owner with 10 years of experience in Healthcare, Banking and Insurance domains. Skilled in Product Strategy,
Roadmap Planning, Agile (Scrum & SAFe), and Stakeholder Management & Alignment. Proven track record of delivering data-driven
products, improving efficiency by 25%, CSAT by 20% and accelerating release cycles by 30%. Skilled in AI-powered innovation (GenAI
& Agentic AI) automation.
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
Strategic Product Leadership: 10 years of experience driving end to end product lifecycle management in Healthcare, Banking, US
Mortgages and Insurance domains, delivering innovative and regulatory compliant solutions.
Product Strategy & Roadmap Planning: Expert in defining product strategy, spearheading go-to-market (GTM) strategy, prioritizing
features, managing product & sprint backlog and shaping strategic roadmaps ensuring alignment with business objectives and market
needs contributing 30% to the company’s annual revenue.
Agile & SAFe Methodologies: Proven success in leading Agile, Scrum and SAFe frameworks, managing sprint planning, backlog
refinement, release planning and cross-functional ceremonies to achieve predictable, high quality deliveries.
Stakeholder & Cross-Functional Leadership: Skilled at partnering with executives, stakeholders, QA, UI/UX team and development
teams, translating business requirements into actionable Epics, User Stories and Acceptance Criteria (GWTs) resulting in an improved
customer satisfaction (CSAT) score by 20%.
Release & Quality Management: Adept at overseeing product releases, coordinating QA processes and optimizing test coverage,
ensuring timely delivery of high quality digital products like NHS NIMS and Digital Motor Insurance in Croatia.
Business Process Analysis & Optimization: Strong capability to analyze workflows, identify gaps and implement improvements,
resulting in reduced rework, enhanced customer experience and improved efficiency by 25%.
Data Driven Decision Making & Metrics: Experience in using dashboards, KPIs and metrics to monitor product performance, guide
strategic decisions and maximize business value and stakeholder satisfaction.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Adoption & Adaptation: Adopted & Adapted the AI models like GenAI (Generative AI) or autonomous
system like Agentic AI using JIRA integrated Rovo AI in the project to build automations & automate the workflows, create work items
& tasks, for summary reporting resulting in improving the productivity significantly and sped up the release process by 30%.
SKILLS
Product Strategy | Product Vision | Product Roadmap| Stakeholder Management & Engagement | Product Lifecycle Management
Product Discovery | MoSCoW Prioritization Framework | Requirements Gathering | Go-To-Market Strategy | MVP Development
GenAI & Agentic AI | KPI Tracking | OKRs (Objectives & Key Results) | Business Process Analysis| User Story Mapping
TOOLS & TECHNOLOGIES
Product & Agile Tools: JIRA, Confluence, Rovo AI, Trello, Miro, Xray, Zephyr, Azure Devops
Testing & APIs: Postman, SoapUI, Bruno, Katalon, JMeter, Swagger
Design & Collaboration: Figma, BrowserStack
Dev & Release Tools: Git, OctoDeploy, HP ALM
Databases: Oracle SQL, RavenDB, SQuirreL
Platforms: Windows, macOS, Android, iOS
EDUCATION
B.TECH – Information Technology
SRM University | 2012 – 2016
CERTIFICATIONS
Certified Scrum Product Owner® (CSPO) – Scrum Alliance®
– Issued : June 2026
Agile Foundations + Scrum – LinkedIn Learning
Agile Scrum Training + Product Owner – Udemy
Certification in Computer Networking – BSNL
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Product Owner | HARMAN (Acquired By Wipro), Bengaluru | July 2021 – Present
 Own end to end product lifecycle management, driving feature ideation, roadmap planning & delivery across UK Healthcare
domain regulated by NHS and in compliance with UK GDPR.
 Define and execute Product Strategy and Roadmap aligned with business goals and market needs for FHIR based products
serving NHS Shared Care Record using HL7 standard framework.
 Serving as the primary liaison between business stakeholders, scrum teams and content build/UI-UX teams, translating strategic
business needs into actionable Epics, Features, User Stories and Acceptance Criteria (GWTs).
 Leading agile transformations, managing product backlog, sprint backlog, backlog grooming and prioritization using MoSCoW
framework and release management to ensure high quality deliveries.
 Driving stakeholder alignment and engagement, delivering product demos, gathering actionable feedback and influencing
decision making at executive levels.
 Orchestrating release management in collaboration with RTEs, ensuring timely and error free product launches, including the
NHS NIMS platform for vaccination services.
 Partnering with UI/UX and QA teams to optimize design workflows, test coverage and ensure exceptional product quality and
user experience.
 Conducting business process analysis, identifying operational gaps and implementing process improvements, resulting in
enhanced efficiency and reduced rework.
 Implement GenAI & Agentic AI driven automation using JIRA Rovo AI to streamline workflows, work items and reporting.
 Leading initiatives showcased at global company events, demonstrating innovation and strategic product impact.
Product Analyst | SAPIENS, Bengaluru | April 2020 – July 2021
 Gathered, analyzed and prioritized business requirements for new product initiatives, ensuring alignment with strategic
objectives and regulatory standards.
 Contributed to Product Discovery and MVP development for digital insurance solutions.
 Played a key role in the successful launch of first Digital Motor Insurance in Croatia, overseeing end to end process from
requirements to delivery.
 Designed requirement traceability matrices (RTM) to ensure comprehensive coverage of features and business objectives.
 Collaborated with cross-functional teams to streamline workflows, reduce operational bottlenecks and improve product
adoption.
Quality Analyst | TATA Consultancy Services, Bengaluru | July 2016 – April 2020
 Executed comprehensive testing strategies including Functional, Integration, Regression, Smoke & Sanity and UAT Testing for
Banking and US Mortgages domain.
 Designed robust test scenarios and cases to ensure product quality and reliability.
 Validated APIs using SoapUI and ensured accurate WSDL based service functionality.
 Collaborated with development teams to enhance product quality, reduce defects and accelerate release timelines.
 Developed domain expertise in Banking, US Mortgages and Loans, contributing to more accurate testing, requirements analysis
and stakeholder satisfaction.