PAYAL JAIN
payaljain.cse2012@gmail.com | +91-8376001369 | Hyderabad | Github | LinkedIn
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Accenture Solutions Pvt Ltd.: AI/ML computational Science Sr Analyst: Feb 2024 – present
➢ Led the development of a GenAI based Presentation Creator Tool:
o Designed and implemented a scalable GenAI solution using OpenAI GPT models, enabling dynamic generation of
business presentations based on topic, template, and contextual document input.
o Utilized langchain to load, chunk, and retrieve data from user-uploaded files and client-specific knowledge bases,
supporting Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) workflows.
o Applied advanced prompt engineering to ensure consistent and structured outputs for template recommendations,
agenda suggestions, and content generation tailored to business contexts.
o Integrated Milvus vector database (hosted via Docker on Azure VM) for chunk-based document storage and semantic
search, enhancing the system’s retrieval capabilities.
o Built and deployed production-grade components on Azure using services such as Azure OpenAI, Azure VM, and
CI/CD pipelines, ensuring reliability and maintainability.
o Collaborated cross-functionally with frontend and PR teams and led architectural design to align with business goals
and user experience expectations.
➢ Intelligent Application Portfolio Management:
o Enhanced the existing LOB recommendation engine, which initially relied on fuzzy matching and keyword analysis, by
integrating a GenAI-based model to improve accuracy.
o Contributed to the feature utilizing Sentence Transformer with BERT for generating embeddings of application
descriptions, utilizing cosine similarity scoring to accurately map them to the appropriate business capabilities.
o Utilized Azure Blob Storage to manage and access large-scale database files and employed the Pandas library for
merging and transforming datasets during preprocessing.
➢ Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)-based chatbot.
o Developed advanced features such as chat history management, reply to previous queries option for users, ensuring
seamless conversational flow and enhance user interaction.
o Integrated functionality to suggest new queries to users.
➢ Exploration of Multimodal and Agentic AI Capabilities
o Conducted hands-on experimentation with state-of-the-art multimodal LLMs including Gemini, llama, and GPT-4,
evaluating their capabilities for text, image and video inputs.
o Completed training on Accenture's Agentic AI Framework, gaining practical knowledge in designing autonomous LLM
agents capable of tool use, task orchestration
Ineda Systems Pvt. Ltd.: Senior Design Engineer (SDE): April 2016 – April 2018
Automated driving using Machine Learning
➢ Radar based target classification:
o Led the design and implementation of High-performance predictive ML model for target classification.
o Demonstrated proficiency in extracting analytical insights of data collected from FMCW radar using Matplotlib and
Seaborn libraries.
o Implemented techniques to extract valuable statistical features from the interpreted data.
➢ Implemented several ML classification techniques like SVM (using all kinds of kernels), Random Forest, XGBoost, Principal
Component Analysis using Numpy, Scikit-learn.
Embedded Systems
➢ Self-training on embedded components of the SoCs delivered by Ineda Systems.
➢ Developed 8bit OLED display for a SoC at app, interface, engine, display driver level.
➢ Fixed bugs and implemented test cases for MPU and MCU components of the SOCs.
Samsung India Electronics Pvt Ltd – NOIDA: Software Engineer: July 2012 - Dec 2015
➢ Worked on coding and development of Application of feature phones:
o Developed new GUI screens and functionalities for FM Radio features of new phone models.
o Proposed new ideas and enhanced FM radio app by adding RDS support, Alternate Frequency, background FM
recording, FM sharing via Bluetooth and SMS.
➢ Worked in White box team with the major responsibilities of code review, test-case development, code optimization,
prevention of new issues and side-effects due to code modifications for Contacts and FM.
o Size Optimization of .ini files storing from 31MB to 64KB for the basic feature phones.
Professional Development (during career break from April 2018- Feb 2024)
➢ Completed "NLP Specialization" by deeplearning.ai on Coursera.
➢ Completed certification course - Deep Learning: Advanced Natural Language Processing and RNNs on Udemy.
SKILLS
✓ Python (NumPy, Pandas, Scikit-Learn, Tensorflow, Kears, Matplotlib, NLP, NLTK)
✓ Machine Learning, Deep Learning
✓ Azure Devops, Azure services (VM, Blob storage, Azure OpenAI, Function App)
✓ Flask API, Fast API
✓ Gen AI (LLM models – OpenAI(3.5 turbo, 4.o, embedding model), Gemini, llama 3.2, Claude), RAG, vector database
(Milvus),
✓ Programming in C/C++, Embedded Systems
✓ SQL Basics
✓ ANN, CNN, RNN, LSTM, GRU
PROFICIENCY
Software Tools: VS Code, Anaconda, Review Board, Git, Google Colab, Postman
Operating system: Windows, Ubuntu
ACADEMICS
B.Tech: Computer Science and Engineering (2010-2012) CGPA - 4.82/5(85.1%) NERIST University,Itanagar
Diploma: Computer Science and Engineering (2008-2010) CGPA - 4.62/5(81.9%) NERIST University,Itanagar
ACHIEVEMENTS & AWARDS
✓ Awarded Gold Medal in BTech (Computer Science and Engineering) in North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and
Technology.
✓ Received multiple Awards for early deliverables and performance excellence at Samsung Research Institute, Noida