



C ONTACT 
kalapanajes4@gmail.com
+91 - 7358603846
Bengalore , Karnataka

SKILLS
Gen AI, Langchain
NLP,LLM,GCP,Postman
Supervised & Unsupervised Algorithms,PowerApp

Deep learning,VERTEX AI Classification ,Regression Python,openvino,Winscp Seaborn,TensorFlowLiteModel
Feature selection , Ensemble Techniques,Tableau	
BERT, GPT Models, T5
Python,Machine Learning	 RAG, LLAMA CHATBOT, postgresql Jira, Streamlit,FASTAPI

LANGUAGES 
English Hindi Telugu
Analyst)
Having Over 10+ Years of IT Experience in the field of Data Analytics, Machine learning, Supervised, Unsupervised and Gen-AI,NLP,LLM using Python.I have led customer support teams through significant procedural changes And oversaw the other members, led by example and helped to plan and various activities.
EXPERIENCE 
AI/ML Com putational Science Senior Analyst	Aug 2019 – Aug 2025
Accenture,Bangalore,Karnataka Project: CEDAR
Developing and designing language understanding systems and effectively using text representation techniques.
Design,develop and optimize large language models,NLP systems,frameworks and tools for both front-end and back-end development.
Stay up to date with the latest advancements in LLM, NLP, deep learnigng, machine learning, and object detection algorithms, and proactively identify opportunities to leverage new technologies for improved solutions.
Built end-to-end RAG systems to extract, chunk, and embed knowledge from PDFs and unstructured documents, integrating OpenAI models and vector stores to deliver contextual LLM responses.
Language Model Development: Utilize off the LLM services, such as OpenAI, to integrate LLM capabilities into applications.
Project: CS&S – Mobility
Developing and working with large language models on Azure, creating the pipelines and testing through Postman and PowerApps.
Develop and execute test cases for APIs using Postman, ensuring that APIs behave as expected and meet performance requirements.
Involved in end-to-end testing of the entire system, including data pipelines, API interactions, and front-end integration.
Gather user feedback on PowerApps applications, refine features, and iterate on the solution to improve performance and usability.
Document processes and workflows and provide regular updates to stakeholders on project progress and outcomes.
Research and stay up to date on the latest advancements in generative AI technologies and methodologies.
Project: EOFS(Payment&Fraud)

Identifying and implementing ML models to detect fraudulent 	transactions.
	Analyzing data and finding the hidden insights of data. 	Data cleaning, wrangling and preparations.
Feature extraction and Engineering.



EDUCATION
MCA (Master of Computer Applications)
Jun 2011
Vrs & Yrn College of Engineering & Technology JNTU University, Kakinada Post Graduate, Jun 2011 Marks 81%
Bachelor of Computer Applications
Jun 2008
YA Govt. Degree College for women, Acharya Nagarjuna University, Guntur.
Graduate, Jun 2008
Marks 66%

AWARDS 
GROWTH CATALYST AWARD
Accenture
Built anomaly detection model using Isolation Forest, finding abnormal Patterns to capture possible fraud orders.
Written various function to read, clean and prepare the data for modelling.
Predict fraud probability score for daily orders using above model which helped other team to make better decision.
Tools used: Anaconda Notebook, Pycharm , Python 3.7, GitLab, Sql developer,Winscp
Project: O n e A P I D e v s u m m i t ( I n t e l )
OCR (Optical Character Recognition) is used to automatically scan documents images, identify the regions (ROIs)with text and extract the different letters from text detected.
Validating the results and creating the benchmark logs Validating the accuracy for models and tested data by using Python libraries.
Worked on AQE workflows on ATR easy vista tool(Accenture internal tool).
Associate	Apr 2016 - Aug 2019
Cognizant Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd, Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Project: Customer Acquisition credit worthiness-Deutsche Bank
Tools used: Jupyter Notebook, Python, Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Spyder, Scikit-learn, Github & Tableau
Solution: Implemented an ML algorithm that could achieve the following:
Three Ensemble Methods Namely Logistic regression, XGBoost and Random ForestCombined with three ML algorithm To asses credit risk.Feature selection is applied to select the important attributes.
Interpretation:Accuracy of model Classifier was 97.86% Project: MetLife-MetLife IB PST
TechnicalEnvironment:Cobol,Jcl,Vsam,Cics,DB2,AS400,Windows XP, Windows 95/98,Z/OS, Changeman, Platinam
Associate Consultant	Jul 2015 - Apr 2016
Polaris, Chennai, Tamil Nadu.
Projects Name: Winter-Morgan Stanley, US
TechnicalEnvironment:Cobol,Jcl,Vsam,Cics,DB2,AS400,Windows XP, Windows 95/98,Z/OS, Changeman, Platinam
Software Engineer	Jul 2014 - Apr 2015
IBM India private Limited, Bangalore,Karnataka
Projects Name: Client Information Source (CIS) - Prudential, US TechnicalEnvironment:Cobol,Jcl,Vsam,Cics,DB2,AS400,Windows XP, Windows 95/98,Z/OS