BALA		

E-Mail: balu.genai1524@gmail.com			Mobile: +91 6303514152

Overall Experience                                                    			                               	

Data Scientist with 5+ years of hands-on experience in business problem solving using Data Science with python. 
Provide the necessary insights, analytic’s, and business intelligence to aid decision-making.
Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, teamwork, and leadership qualities.
Experienced at creating data regression models, using predictive data modeling, and analyzing data mining algorithms to deliver insights and implement action-oriented solutions to complex business problems.
Design and develop scalable web applications and AI-powered dashboards using Python Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Seaborn (FastAPI/Flask).
Experience in Machine Learning, Statistical Analysis, Statistical Modeling, Hypothesis Testing, Model Deployment, Data Engineering, Deep Learning, Python and Gen-AI, Open AI,Chat-GPT  Large Language Models, BERT, Mistral7B, Transformers.
Expertise in Natural Language Processing, Text Mining, Text Processing Techniques, Multi-Label Classification, Named Entity Recognition (NER), Word Embedding ELMO.
 Have good hands-on experience with frameworks like Sci-Kit Learn, Keras, and Tensor Flow, NLTK, Genism, SpaCy, LangChain, Huggingface Transformers, Mlops, LLMops and Devops
Expertise in creating end to end solution, from data wrangling, EDA to model building, Model Deployment (Docker, Gitlab, Kubernetes engine, MLFlow, Kubeflow), Model Monitoring 
Hands-on experience with ML model deployment, monitoring, and scaling CI/CD.
Knowledge of data engineering best practices and data pipeline tools (Apache Airflow, Kafka).
Involved in various client demos, knowledge Transfer sessions and presentations.
Excellent problem solving and analytical skills.
For protecting the security of your data and identities, on-premises resources, and the cloud components you control by using AWS, GCP and Azure AI search, copilot studio, Azure function cli clouds

Experience Summary			
				          			 
Working as a GEN-AI specialist in PWC 12-08-2025 to 10-10-2025
Working as an ML Engineer in Random Trees 08-11-2023 to 26-04-2024.
Working as a Data Scientist in Capgemini from 30-04-2021 to 6-6-2023.
Working as a Data Scientist in Dionysus Technologies Pvt Ltd from 18-04-2018 to 23-04-2021.

Education							                      	           	
M. Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering from-JNTUH -2015

Technical Skills:                									           
Languages 			:       Python, Generative AI, LLM, Open AI,Transformers
Libraries 			:       Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, NLTK, Spacy
Packages			:       Sci-Kit learn, TensorFlow    
Deep Learning Technologies   :       ANN, CNN, RNN, LSTM, LangChain, Huggingface
Statistical/ML                             :       Linear/Logistic Regression, SVM, Random Forest
Database			:        MySQL, Pgadmin, Vector Databases,
Testing			              :        Manual Testing
Professional Experience

Project #1
Project	             : 	Extendable Producer Responsibility (EPR)
Client		:	PWC
Technology	:            Gen-AI, LLM’s, Azure function cli, Copilot, Chatgpt 4.o,LLMops,
Languages	: 	Python 3.X

Description:

EPR, or Extended Producer Responsibility, is a policy where producers are held responsible for the entire lifecycle of their products, from design to end-of-life management and disposal.
Responsibilities:
Involving in various discussions and understanding the requirements (KT’s)
Procuring Data from Upstream systems
Setup and Requirements
Design and develop scalable web applications and AI-powered dashboards using FastAPI
Develop and optimize LLM-based applications using RAG, GraphRAG, and fine-tuned LLMs OpenAI chatgpt 4.0, Mistral7B, Azure AI Search, Copilot Studio, Azure AI Search Index,  
Vector databases PostgreSQL (ChromaDB, Pinecone, FAISS).
Build, Deployment and Model monitoring in Azure 

Project #2
Project	             : 	Document & Application Processing-AI (DCAP)
Client		:	Random Trees
Technology	:            Gen-AI, LLM’s, AWS, GCP and Azure, LLMops,
Languages	: 	Python 3.X

Description:

Document AI Workbench provides an easy way to build custom processors to classify, split, and extract structured data from documents. Workbench is powered by generative AI, which means it can be used out of the box to get accurate results across a wide array of documents.

Responsibilities:
Involving in various discussions and understanding the requirements (KT’s)
Procuring Data from Upstream systems
Setup and Requirements
Enable the Document AI API
Authenticate API requests
Install the client library
Download the Sample PDF
Extract Form Key/Value Pairs
Parse Tables
Make an Online Processing Request
Make a Batch Processing Request
Make a Batch Processing Request for a directory
Design and develop scalable web applications and AI-powered dashboards using FastAPI
Develop and optimize LLM-based applications using RAG, GraphRAG, and fine-tuned LLMs OpenAI, Mistral7B,
Vector databases PostgreSQL (ChromaDB, Pinecone, FAISS).
Build, Deployment and Model monitoring in GCP,Vertex-AI, BigQuery Gitlab, Kubernetes, Jenkins


Project #3

Project	             : 	Application Fraud Detection (AFD)
Client		:	SCB
Technology	:            Machine Learning (Random Forest, Auto ML)
Languages	: 	Python 3.X

Description:

 Application fraud detection is never an easy task and the rapid expansion of digital banking coupled with increasing sophistication of fraudsters makes this even more challenging.
	In the last 18 months our bank emerged stronger to this challenge as we were able to successfully implement our application fraud detection engine (AFD) across 20 markets. Fraud check engine detects fraudulent applications using combination of AI Models, Rules, and Negative Lists.

Responsibilities:
Involving in various discussions and understanding the requirements (KT’s)
Procuring Historical Data from Upstream systems
Getting Fraud labels from Country Team
Validating Field mapping between the source and AFD
Data Preprocessing
Finding Categorical Features, Data Correlation
Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)
Feature Engineering
To perform statistical analysis
Model Building and deploy the model using AWS, EC2, S3 Bucket cloud
Create a CI/CD pipeline using Docker, git lab, AKS, Jenkins, and Kubernetes



Project #4

Project	             :            Comprehend Medical.
Client		:	Sanofi.
Technology	:	Natural Language Processing (NLP). 
Languages	: 	Python 3.X.

Description:

Sanofi is a global pioneer in pharmaceutical and diagnostics focused on advancing science to improve people live. Sanofi’s NAVIFY decision support portfolio helps multidisciplinary care teams navigate increasing complexity of medical information by transforming large amounts of data into actionable insights.
	
 	Sanofi’s NAVIFY decision support portfolio provides solutions that accelerates research and enable personalized healthcare. With petabytes of unstructured data being generated in hospital systems every day, our goal is to take this information and converted it into useful insights that can be efficiently accessed and understood. Natural Language Processing (NLP)based Comprehend Medical provides the functionality to help us with quickly extracting and structuring information from medical documents, and enable both decision support and population analytics. 

Responsibilities:

Involving in various discussions and understanding the requirements (KT’s). 
Ingestion the data from the source using Apache Airflow
Select appropriate annotated datasets for Unsupervised Learning methods.
Named Entity Recognition on Chemical + Disease Corpus with Bio-BERT Task Description.
Introduced pre-trained language model BERT can be adapted for biomedical corpora.
Bio-BERT is fine-tuned Large Language Model (LLM) and evaluated on three popular biomedical text mining tasks (NER, RE and QA).
Use effective text representations to transform natural language into useful features.
Find and implement the right algorithms and tools for NLP tasks.
Develop NLP systems according to requirements.
Train the developed model and run evaluation experiments.
Perform statistical analysis of results and refine models.
Extend ML libraries and frameworks to apply in NLP tasks
Model building and deploy the model using GCP, Vertex-AI, and BigQuery cloud. 
Model Monitoring Using MLFlow, Prometheus




 


POC #1

Project 	: 	Chatbot implementation in Tourism (a pilot project)
Client		:	Lonely Planet
Technology	:	Artificial Intelligence 
Languages	: 	Python 3.X

Description:

Modern digital messaging platforms have extended the traditional vanilla messaging
service to being more features based and affordable. Gone are the days when you just messaged plain text in abbreviated form, today message can contain any forms of media. With ever growing user base, being engaged in this medium messaging as a platform was bound to leap to the next level of innovation - Chatbots. This pilot Project aims to implement a Chatbot kind of system like a travel guide using Python where it asks says and replies to the user commands.

Responsibilities:
Involving in various discussions and understanding the requirements.
Understanding the problem
Gathering the data to train the chatbot 
Data Pre-processing
Selecting NLP techniques
Implementing and training the chatbot
Testing and Evaluating  
Deployment 


 