Puppy kumari Email Id –
Puppykumari12@gmail.com
Ph: 9818937987
Location: New Delhi
Summary Achievement-oriented software developer with 10 years of experience in web and window development.
Expertise in C#, MVC, Asp.net, .net Core, MSSQL and RESTful APIs. I am also a skilled front- end
developer experienced in creating visually stunning and user-friendly websites and applications. Proven
ability to design, develop, and deploy scalable systems.
Role History • Sr. Consultant – Current
• Sr. Software Engineer [2021-2024]
• Software Developer [June 2015- Jan 2020]
Degree Board/University Year of Passing
10th B.S.E.B 2005
Education 12th B.S.E.B 2007
B.C.A S.M. U 2011
M.C.A G.G.S.I.P.U 2014
Organization Designation Duration
Cordova Learning Software Developer June 2015 to Aug 2021.
Career Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
History Zensar Technology Sr. Software Engineer Aug 2021 to March 2024.
Capgemini Senior Consultant April 2024 to Jan 2026.
Coforge Technical Lead Feb 2026 to June 2026.
Category skills
Verticals/Domains Healthcare, ERP, Ecommerce, Payroll, E-learning, Cargo System,
Flight, Restaurant, CRM, Power Invoice.
Core programming and • Languages: C#, Linq
frameworks • Frameworks: .NET Framework(V-8), ASP.NET (MVC,
Core), .Net Core (6-8), Entity Framework,
• Architecture: Object-Oriented Programming (OOP),
RESTful APIs, MVC, Microservice
Core Databases • SQL: SQL Server, SQL, T-SQL, Stored Procedures
compe Front-end and client-side • Languages: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript,
tencie jQuery, Angular JS.
s
• Libraries: Angular (V-17, 19), React(V-19), jQuery,
/Skills
AJAX
• Other: Client/server-side validation, dynamic menus,
Bootstrap
Cloud and DevOps • Cloud platforms: Microsoft Azure (Azure Virtual
Machines, App Service, Azure Functions, Blob Storage,
Azure Files, Queue Storage, Table Storage, Virtual machine,
Azure SQL Database)
• Tools: Git, Source Tree, DevOps, CI/CD, Microsoft
Copilot.
Testing and development • Testing: Unit testing (XUnit)
practices • Principles: SOLID principles
• Tools: Visual Studio, JIRA, Postman, Specflow
Soft skills • Problem-solving and analytical skills
• Communication skills (written and verbal)
• Team collaboration
• Time management
Project Role: Sr. Software Engineer.
Project: - Warehouse System.
Client: - Worldwide Flight Services.
Project Description: -
In this project cargo related products are managed by warehouse staff. There are 3 modules, acceptance
breakdown and buildup.
The buildup is done by warehouse agents, who need to previously load the records in the system to ensure
anything built up is OK to go by all standards. Warehouse agents in the smart warehouse to perform the
breakdown accordingly. Warehouse personnel will then initiate the process of handling the freight
according to the breakdown instructions prepared by the office agents during flight preparation. When
consolidations (with multiple HWBs) are indicated to be broken down by HWB, the warehouse agent
will enter the piece count at each location for each HWB.
Programming skill: -HTML5, CSS3, Entity Framework, JSON, C#.Net and MVC, Linq, web API, SQL
Server, .Net core, Angular, Azure function, Azure app service.
Tools and Technology: -Visual Studio, SQL Server, Git, Azure DevOps. (CI/CD)
Responsibilities: -
• Agile development methodology, ensuring design compliance with technical requirements for
Availability, Capacity, Performance, and Security.
• Developing project plans, estimating time requirements, establishing deadlines, monitoring
milestones, tracking project lifecycle, reporting issues that impact project progress to both client &
top managements.
• Developed and maintained web applications using C#, .NET / .NET Core, ASP.NET MVC, and
Web API and Angular.
• Designed and implemented RESTful APIs using ASP.NET Core Web API.
• Developed reusable and scalable application components using Object-Oriented Programming
(OOP) and SOLID principles.
• Worked with Entity Framework / Entity Framework Core for database connectivity, ORM, and
CRUD operations.
• Implemented Azure cloud services for application hosting, configuration, storage, monitoring, and
deployment.
• Worked with Azure App Service, Azure SQL Database, Azure Storage, Azure Key Vault, and
Application Insights as required by the application architecture.
• Designed and optimized SQL Server queries, stored procedures, views, and database objects.
• Implemented LINQ queries for efficient data manipulation and business logic.
• Implemented secure authentication and authorization using JWT.
• Implemented application-level validations, exception handling, logging, and performance
improvements.
• Designed responsive and reusable UI components using Angular, TypeScript, HTML, CSS, and
Bootstrap.
• Used Git for source-code management and followed branching and pull-request practices.
• Configured and maintained CI/CD pipelines using Azure DevOps, including automated build,
testing, and deployment processes.
Project Role: Sr. Software Engineer.
Project: - Financial
Client: - SBI Card
Project Description: -
I was responsible for creating REST APIs, implementing JWT authentication, designing database tables,
optimizing Entity Framework queries, and integrating.
Development & production support. Create and manage multiple databases and assist in capacity
planning.
Programming skill: - Entity Framework core, C#.Net and MVC, Linq, SQL Server, .Net core, REST
API.
Tools and Technology: -Visual Studio, SQL Server, Git, Azure DevOps. (CI/CD)
Responsibilities: -
• Led a team responsible for the full life cycle of software development using agile methodologies.
• Reviewed user requirements, analyzed, implemented, and delivered training for new applications.
• Implement common activities for all modules.
• Coded, debugged problems, and corrected issues.
• Developed and maintained web applications using C#, .NET / .NET Core, ASP.NET MVC, and
Web API.
• Designed and implemented RESTful APIs using ASP.NET Core Web API.
• Developed reusable and scalable application components using Object-Oriented Programming
(OOP) and SOLID principles.
• Used Git for source-code management and followed branching and pull-request practices.
• Worked with CI/CD pipelines and deployment processes for .NET applications.
Project Role: Senior Consultant.
Project: - POS application.
Client: - Subway.
Project Description: -
Subway is an American multinational fast food restaurant franchise that specializes in submarine
sandwiches and wraps.
This application has made in WPF. In this project, I have worked on writing scenario using Spec flow
for different region, and I have also developed new features in existing project.
Programming skill: - WPF, C#.Net and MVC, web API, SQL Server.
Tools and Technology: -Visual Studio, SQL Server, Spec Flow, Git, Azure DevOps. (CI/CD)
. Responsibilities: -
• Write scenario, CIT stabilization using Spec Flow tool.
• Monitoring the plan, fix failure plan and re run.
• Developed and maintained Windows desktop applications using C#, .NET, WPF, and XAML.
• Designed responsive and user-friendly interfaces using WPF controls, styles, templates, resources,
and custom controls.
• Implemented the MVVM (Model-View-View Model) architecture to ensure separation of UI,
business logic, and data access layers.
• Configured and maintained CI/CD pipelines using Azure DevOps, including automated build,
testing, and deployment processes.
Role: Software developer.
Project: - E-learning Application.
Client: - Cordova Learning Solutions.
Project Description: -
In this project all chapters of books are video based on website and all exercise is given online. In
exercise, student can give online test and get result at a time and see review in live test paper, and
Project Parents can see report in dashboard.
Programming skill: - Entity Framework Core, C#, .Net Core and MVC, SQL Server, React JS, Azure.
Tools and Technology: -Visual Studio, SQL Server
Responsibility: -
• Application Development:
Build key modules like user registration/login, video lessons, quizzes, assignments, and
certificates, E-books.
• Requirement Analysis:
Understand needs from instructors, learners, and business teams, and convert them into technical
features.
• Frontend Development:
Create responsive and user-friendly interfaces (dashboards, course pages, progress tracking).
• Backend Development:
Develop logic for authentication, course delivery, progress tracking, grading, and notifications.
•
Role: Software developer.
Project: - Ecommerce (Developed 3 ecommerce project)
Client: - Cordova Learning Solutions.
Project Description: -
The main objective of this project is sale school uniform and stationery items online; In this software
also has admin panel.
Project Programming skill: - Entity Framework, JSON, C# .Net Core, and MVC, Linq, SQL Server.
Tools and Technology: -Visual Studio, SQL Server
Responsibilities: -
• Design and analysis of the modification requirements.
• Developed and maintained an E-commerce web application using C#, ASP.NET MVC, .NET,
Entity Framework, and SQL Server.
• Designed and implemented application modules such as User Registration/Login, Product
Catalog, Product Search, Shopping Cart, Wishlist, Checkout, Orders, and User Profile.
• Developed MVC Controllers, Models, Views, and reusable business components following a
layered architecture.
• Integrate payment gateway.
• Used AJAX and jQuery to provide dynamic product filtering, cart updates, and other interactive
features without full-page refreshes.
Experience Role: Software developer.
Summary Project: - School ERP
Client: - Cordova Learning Solutions.
Project Description: -
School ERP software is a robust, time-tested educational ERP system integrated with the advanced
modules to enable faculty & educators to digitize the daily work processes of educational institutions.
Also referred to as a school management system, the smart school ERP software simplifies the complex
administrative & non-administrative tasks including online admission, online fees.
management, examination management, assessments, timetable, schedule planning, teaching-
learning, etc.
Programming skill: - Entity Framework, JSON, C#.Net and MVC, Linq, SQL Server, Angular.
Tools and Technology: -Visual Studio, SQL Server
Responsibilities: -
• Developed and maintained a school ERP web application using C#, ASP.NET MVC, .NET,
Entity Framework, and SQL Server.
• Developed modules for Student Management, Teacher Management, Admission, Attendance,
Fees, Examination, Timetable, Library, Transport, and User Management.
• Presented training to staff as needed.
• Communicated often with business clients throughout the process and gave updates of work.
• Designed and optimized SQL Server database tables, relationships, queries, stored
procedures, and views.
• Implemented role-based authentication and authorization for Admin, Principal, Teacher,
Student, Parent, and Staff users.
Experience Role: Software developer.
Summary Project: - Payroll
Client: - Cordova Learning Solutions.
Project Description: -
Team-oriented Payroll Accountant adept at creating clear and comprehensive financial reports detailing
payroll activity while efficiently managing all payroll tasks.
Programming skill: - Entity Framework, JSON, C#.Net and MVC, Linq, SQL Server, Web Api
Tools and Technology: -Visual Studio, SQL Server
Responsibilities: -
• Developed debugged and implemented code as needed.
• Maximized efficiency through effective coordination with employees and management.
• Verified employee data and made needed corrections.
• Processed weekly and bi-monthly payrolls for hourly and salaried employees.
• Generated reports for each payroll cycle as well as monthly quarterly and yearly documents.
• Balanced payroll accounts and maintained department accuracy.
Experience Role: Software developer.
Summary Project: Healthcare
Project Description: -
I worked on a Healthcare Management System developed using ASP.NET Core Web API, React, SQL
Server, and Entity Framework Core. The application managed patients, doctors, appointments,
prescriptions, and billing. I was responsible for creating REST APIs, implementing JWT authentication,
designing database tables, optimizing Entity Framework queries, and integrating the React frontend with
the .NET backend. We followed clean architecture, Dependency Injection and SOLID principles to build
a scalable and maintainable application.
Programming skill: - C#, .Net core, MVC, LINQ, REST API.
Tools and Technology: -Visual Studio, SQL Server
Responsibilities: -
• Agile development methodology, ensuring design compliance with technical requirements
for Availability, Capacity, Performance, and Security.
• Interacted and communicated with stakeholders, software vendors, and clients.
• Coded, debugged problems, and corrected issues.
• Developing project plans, estimating time requirements, establishing deadlines, monitoring
milestones, tracking project lifecycle, reporting issues that impact project progress to both
client & top managements.
Experience Role: Software developer.
Summary Project: - Power Invoice (Window based and web based)
Project Description: -
It is one of the best Billing and Invoice software. It has ease of use & nice interface. Windows based
Billing, Inventory Management and Accounting Software. It can handle multiple customers by allowing
to hold current invoice and pick it later.
Programming skill: - C#, SQL Server, MVC.
Tools and Technology: -Visual Studio, SQL
Server, Oracle.
Responsibilities: -
• Maintained an up-to-date billing system, generate and sent out invoices, perform account
reconciliations Meeting clients and maintain and update Stock.
• Prepared summary sheets and manual invoicing whenever necessary.
• Handled invoice billing complaints and discrepancies, issuing credit memos when necessary.
• Recorded details of customer interactions such as inquiries, complaints, comments, or actions
taken
• Generate barcode of product.
• Generate bill using barcode scanner machine.
Name: Puppy kumari
Gender: Female
Mob- 9818937987
Marital Status: Married
DOB-21/08/1990