VAIRAMOORTHY NAGARAJAN
Technical Lead – Senior .NET Core and Azure Developer
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY TECHNICAL SKILLS
Microsoft Technologies
13.5 years of experience as Software
Developer in Software Design, Web API / Asp.net Microsoft Azure
Analysis, Development, Testing and core Api/Micro (App Services,
Implementation of Web and Client Services Functions,Devops,
Keyvault,Azure ADF)
Server Application using Microsoft
Technology C# / VB Asp.net /MVC
Data Factory)
CONTACT Frontend – UI Technology
Angular JS Angular
Database
MS SQL Oracle 11/12 g
Thiruvanmiyur,
Chennai-600041
Testing Framework
Coded UI Test Xunit
Project Management / Source control
+91 9791107693
Git TFS
vairamtalkies @gmail.com JIRA SVN
Certification
https://www.linkedin.com/in/vaira
moorthy-n-4100112a2/ AZ-104
AI-108
LANGUAGES
Professional Skills
English – Speak/Read/Write
Individual Contributor | Team Leader | Base-Creation | Ideator | Open to learn any
Tamil – Speak/Read/Write
new Technology | Organizer | Mentor | Quick Learner | Travel/Retail/BFS Domain
Knowledge
CAREER DEVELOPMENT – EMPLOYMENT
Nov 2012 –2025
Worked as Software Developer and Lead for Tata Consultancy Services
Nov 2025 – July 2026
Worked as Software Technical Lead for CTS
EDUCATION
M-Tech- InformationTechnology from “Velammal Engineering College,Anna
University (2011-2012)
B-Tech - InformationTechnology from “MIET Engineering College,Anna
University (2006-2010)
MAJOR PROJECTS
Premera /United States Project description:
IMT (Individual Market Transition): Worked on the migration of Individual
Technology used:
Market Transition (IMT) processes from an external vendor system to
C#, .NetCore, Rest API, Azure Function
Premera’s internal platform. The project involved handling individual user
, Entity framework Core ,LINQ,
claim enrollment, claim purchasing, and billing functionalities to ensure
, MS SQL, Xunit, Sonar, ASP.Net,
seamless data integration and improved operational efficiency.
Copilot, Docker, Kubernetes, uDeploy,
Micro Services, Azure Devops Responsibilities:
(App Services, Azure Function, Azure
• Working as a Technical Lead and Team Lead, managing and
Storage, Key vault, Azure Data
coordinating a 23-member development team.
Factory)
• Providing technical guidance, architecture support, and issue
resolution for the development team.
Client: Premera
Domain: HealthCare • Supporting the team in L3 support for critical application issues and
Role : Technical Lead and Involved in production incidents, design decisions, improving code quality, and
Scrum Estimation, Development, troubleshooting complex technical issues.
Team Leading
• Responsible for task allocation, progress tracking, and overall
delivery management.
• Involved in transitioning the IMT system from a third-party vendor
platform to the in-house Premera FACETS system.
NedBank /SouthAfrica
• Handled individual claim enrollment, purchasing, and billing
Technology used: modules as part of the IMT transition.
C#, .NetCore, Rest API, Azure Function
• Responsible for data migration, process optimization, and system
, Entity framework Core ,LINQ,
integration to improve performance and ensure compliance with
, MS SQL, Xunit, Sonar, ASP.Net,
organizational standards.
Copilot, Docker, Kubernetes, uDeploy,
Azure Devops Key Aspects:
(App Services, Azure Function, Azure
• Involved in Requirement Gathering, Estimation, Technical Analysis,
Storage, Key vault, Azure Data
Sprint Planning.
Factory)
• Performed code reviews, supported migration of on-premise
applications to Azure Cloud, implemented data migration using
Client : Nedbank Azure Data Factory, and monitored Autosys jobs and Integration
Domain: Banking (BFS) APIs to ensure smooth system operations.
Role : Involved in Scrum
Estimation, Development, Team
Leading
Project description:
APR: its major application. CPP application portal shows status of the users
annual pricing rate of product and allows employees to give the pricing rate
to the user products.
CNP: its major application. The Client Negotiation (CNP) Portal website will be
used by all the client products by employees.
Responsibilities:
• Worked as Technical Lead, coordinating development activities and
supporting the team in delivering application enhancements and fixes.
• Provided technical guidance and design support for the APR and CNP
applications.
• Collaborated with business stakeholders and product teams to
understand requirements and translate them into technical solutions.
• Supported L3 support for critical application issues and production
incidents, development, issue analysis, and troubleshooting for
critical production issues.
• Coordinated with team members to ensure timely delivery of
features and system improvements.
• Ensured application stability, performance, and compliance with
organizational standards.
Key Aspects:
• APR (Annual Pricing Rate) Portal: Application used to display the
status of users’ annual product pricing rates and enable employees to
manage and update pricing rates for customer products.
• CNP (Client Negotiation Portal): Web portal used by employees to
manage and support client product negotiation activities across
multiple products.
ALDI Supermarket(Germany) Project description:
Technology used: The ALDI supermarket application is our enterprise-wide, end-to-end,
Dot Net Core C#, REST API, LINQ, space and range transformation program that will optimize how we
Entity framework, MS SQL, buy, move and sell. This means our ways of working, processes and
Nunit, Azure Devops systems will be simplified, re-imagined and optimized to deliver
Client : ALDI
benefits to our customers, our people, our suppliers and our business.
Domain : Retail
Role : Involved in Scrum
Responsibilities: Sprint Planning, Coding, understanding requirements,
Estimation, Development, Team
functional Testing, Designing, Debugging
Leading
Key Aspects:
• Involved in Estimation, Sprint & Capex Planning
• Technical analysis and development.
• Involved Code-Review
• Created an Architecture Design for this project.
• Created a complete boiler plate
WoolWorths/Australia Project description:
The RSO Program is our enterprise-wide, end-to-end, space and range
Technology used: WPF(XAML) , transformation program that will optimize how we buy, move and sell. This
Sql server 2018, C#.net, LINQ, Azure means our ways of working, processes and systems will be simplified, re-
Devops imagined and optimized to deliver benefits to our customers, our people, our
Client : WoolWorths suppliers and our business. The RSO Program is not just an IT Delivery Program,
Domain : Retails nor just a range review process, nor a program only for Supermarkets.
Role : Understand business
requirement, Coding, Database Responsibilities: Understanding requirements, prepared unit test cases,
Designing, UI integration with WPF, Coding, and unit testing.
client interaction. Key Aspects:
• I achieved working experience of writing Database stored procedures
and triggers
• Documented business requirement and create user stories
• Analysis of client requirements.
• Preparation of Unit Test plan and unit testing of all the WPF
development.
Qantas Airlines(Travel) Qantas Travel Scape(Travel)
Technology used: ASP.Net, MVC, Project description: The Qantas Travel scape is a comprehensive product
SQL 2008, Ajax, JavaScript which gives an end-to-end IT solution for passenger’s travel, lodging,
Entity Framework, CSS,HTML boarding, expense reimbursement and ticket management. This application
also connects various internal Strategic Business Units / Travel management
Client :Qantas Airlines-Australia Companies (Channel partners) and has a detailed workflow for various levels
Domain : Travel of approvals.
Role : Involved in Scrum
Estimation, Development, Individual Responsibilities: Sprint Planning, Coding, understanding requirements,
Contributions, Create Mobile functional Testing, Designing, Debugging
Application from scratch.
Key Aspects:
• Involved in Estimation, Sprint & Capex Planning
• Technical analysis and development.
• Involved Code-Review
• Created an Architecture Design for this project.
• Created a complete boiler plate
AIG Japan(Insurance) Project description: We have migrated 123 AIG Applications from windows
2007 to 2010, Main scope of this project is testing, enhancement works in
Technology used: Asp.Net, C#, API, varies technologies.
Web services, , NSE/BSE Responsibilities: Sprint Planning, Coding, understanding requirements,
SQL 2008, Trigger, Ajax, JavaScript functional Testing, Designing, Debugging
Stored Procedures Key Aspects:
Client : AIG • Involved in Estimation, Sprint & Capex Planning
Domain : Banking & Insurance • Technical analysis and Testing.
Role : Involved in Scrum • Involved to communicate all the application owners
Estimation, Development, Individual • Analyzed 123 windows and web application basic software and
Contributions hardware requirement.
• Created environmental setup in Windows 2010 and 2007.
Project description: The Allocation Model is an Excel-based application used by
PCG Institutional Asset Management to allocate private placement investments
------------------------------------------------ to affiliated and non-affiliated investors in accordance with their contractual
Prudential(USA) agreements. This Excel-based model uses formulas and macros to determine
investor appetite and allocates transactions to investors according to a
Technology used: Asp.Net, C#, API, contractual allocation protocol.
Web services, CSS, HTML,ADO.Net,
MS SQL 2008, Trigger, Ajax, JavaScript Responsibilities: Waterfall Method Planning, Coding, understanding
Stored Procedures requirements, functional Testing, Designing, Debugging
Client : Prodential(USA) Key Aspects:
Domain : Banking & Insurance • Involved in Estimation
Role : Involved in Scrum • Technical analysis and development.
Estimation, Development, Individual • Involved Code-Review
Contributions • Created an Architecture Design for this project.
STRENGTH
• believe in maintaining high
standard of work.
• Good Teamwork with Positive
Approach.
• I believe in Smart work in the
execution of the work given to
me.
• Capability to handle Work
independently.
Vairamoorthy Nagarajan