WORK EXPERIENCE Applied Machine Learning Engineer
Intangles Lab
11/2019 - 11/2021,
Achievements/Tasks
Data Scientist
Maersk
Developed a TOPSIS-based Driver Performance Model for route-
03/2023 - 08/2025, specific insights , enabling customer monitoring, rewarding, or
Achievements/Tasks warning of drivers based on performance
metrics .
Developed an Enterprise Document Intelligence platform to extract,
classify, and structure insights from 35,000+ unstructured business Enhanced the Adblue tracking algorithm by 99%, allowing real-
documents. Designed analytics workflows to transform raw text into
time monitoring of thefts, refills, and breakpoints for
actionable intelligence, enabling faster decision-making and
OEM customers.
improved reporting accuracy. Integrated advanced retrieval
SKILLS
mechanisms for scalable access to key business information,
reducing manual effort and enhancing operational efficiency.
Led and contributed to the development of the Container Gate
Time Prediction Model , collaborating across teams to enhance
container flow efficiency. The model delivered $1M in cost
savings.
Integrated MLOps best practices using Airflow, MLflow, and Azure ,
reducing manual intervention and enhancing automation.
PERSONAL PROJECTS
AI Analyst
Pixis
03/2022 - 01/2023,
Developed a predictive analytics model to understand user preferences
Achievements/Tasks between chatbot responses using data from the “Chatbot Arena.” Applied
statistical analysis and machine learning to identify key drivers of user
choices, improving predictive accuracy by 20% over baseline.
Developed an audience insights dashboard for Google and
Facebook Ads by aligning with product, marketing, and sales
Delivered insights on conversational quality and user engagement trends
teams. Led discussions with stakeholders to define key metrics,
to inform product strategy.
improving ad targeting by 20%.
LLM-powered Search & Recommendation System
Used GPT-3 model to develop an AI-driven advertisement generator
fine-tuned pipelines, enabling the marketing team to create Built a semantic search and recommendation engine leveraging LLM
engaging, personalized ad campaigns that boosted customer embeddings and hybrid retrieval (vector + keyword). Designed analytics
engagement by 30% . dashboards to monitor search relevance, user engagement, and
recommendation performance, enabling datadriven improvements in
knowledge management and personalization.
Person Tracking and Re-identification
The goal of the project was to uniquely identify a person in a video
frame. Used YOLO algorithm to detect persons .
Siamese Network to re-identify and track the person through unique
features from the body. Used MTCNN to extract face and Facenet model to
re-identify through unique facial features.
EDUCATION
Bachelor of Technology (CSE)
Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Kalyani
2015 - 2019, 8.24 CGPA
ACHIEVEMENTS
N/Core Ideathon Winner (06/2018)
Project Awaaz - One Lakh Seed Grant. From a total of 946 teams, we were
among the top 10 and as well as the Winner. We received an offer of
incubation as well as prize money of 1 Lakh.
Smart India Hackathon - 2019 (Incubation offer)
From a total of 1000+ ideas on the problem statement of 'PERSON
TRACKING SYSTEM' given by HCL, our Team was chosen among the top 5, we
also received an offer to come onsite and implement our proposed solution.