Shanmukha Bangalore, India 560035 | +91 9715583829
krishnarama829@gmail.com
Ramakrishna
www: https://www.linkedin.com/in/shanmukha-ramakrish
na-a18188158
Experienced data scientist with 7 years in developing data-intensive applications and addressing complex
architectural and scalability challenges across various industries. Proficient in predictive modelling, data
processing, and machine learning algorithms. Strong PySpark skills and a solid background in statistical
analysis, enabling the derivation of actionable insights for informed decision-making and business growth,
particularly in retail and finance sectors. Skilled in Python, and machine learning techniques. Proven ability
to lead cross-functional teams and develop innovative solutions to complex business problems.
Work History
Decision Science Consultant
Accenture, Bangalore May 2025 - Current
Executed end-to-end data science projects, including data preparation, model development, and deployment.
Developed a migration pipeline from Databricks to GCP, worked on converting spark models into GCP Bigquery.
Managed monthly job scheduling and ongoing model maintenance to ensure optimal performance.
Led cross-functional teams in crafting data-driven strategies that improved client decision-making processes.
Facilitated communication between stakeholders to align project objectives with business goals.
Applied advanced statistical approaches to derive actionable insights from complex datasets.
Senior Applied Data Scientist
Dunnhumby, Gurgaon, India May 2023 - April 2025
Led a team of data scientists for a food client, developing multiple product combinations and a predictive model that
significantly increased the digital customer base by 12% each month.
Developed a methodology to capture the top Products used by all the Loyal and Price Sensitive Customers and built the Key
Value items of the client.
Developed Customer Lifetime Value model utilizing BTYD, Gamma-Gamma, Markov Chains, Regression, and Deep
Learning techniques.
Created GenAI-based Text-to-SQL model employing GPT-4 for automated SQL query generation.
Conducted training sessions on Spark, Hadoop Ecosystem, Spark Ecosystem, and Spark Architecture, covering execution
modes such as client and cluster mode.
Successfully pitched a comprehensive yearly plan to a client, resulting in a contract extension for an additional year.
Applied Data Scientist
Dunnhumby, Gurgaon October 2021 - April 2023
Developed a highly effective propensity model and customer acquisition model with an AUC score of 0.83, utilizing PCA for
feature selection and Gradient Boosting for baseline modelling. Employed the Positive Unlabelled Learning (PU Bagging)
approach for neural networks.
Created a customer lifecycle migration using loyalty segmentation to effectively score customers, providing detailed analysis
on customer uplift, downgrade, and retention.
Developed scalable scripts and automated multiple processes, resulting in increased efficiency and reduced workload.
Contributed to the Omnichannel group project during the RPI Hackathon, focusing on the significance of customers in an
omnichannel setting.
Data Analyst
ATOS Syntel, Bangalore July 2018 - September 2021
Designed Test and Control groups to check the impact of multiple campaigns and calculated their uplifts and significance of
each test.
Designed a customer forecasting model using FB Prophet to predict customer trends for the upcoming year based on
historical data of 2 years.
Skills
PySpark,SQL, Python Machine Learning, Deep Learning Statistical Analysis, Predictive modelling Natural
Language Processing Gen AI GCP, Databricks
Education
BTech in Electrical, Electronics And Communications Engineering May 2018
Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT University) at Vellore, India
Final CGPA : 8.02
Certifications
Advanced Pyspark
Machine learning and Deep learning masters at ineuron.ai
Data science A-Z: Real life Datascience