AKASH JAIN
+91 8178011174 ⋄ Delhi, India
jakashwork@gmail.com ⋄ linkedin.com/in/jakashdata/ ⋄ www.github.com/jakashcode
SUMMARY & SKILLS
Results-driven Data Science professional with 5+ years of experience in AI, ML and strategic consulting.
Technical Statistics, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Customer Analytics, NLP, GenAI
Language and Frameworks Python, SQL, PyTorch, Azure Databricks, Docker, MLflow, AWS ECR, FastAPI
Libraries Pandas, NumPy, scikit-learn, OpenCV, Flask, LangChain, LangGraph, FastAPI
EXPERIENCE
Lead Data Scientist Aug 2025 – Present
Material+ Gurugram, India
• McKinsey (QuantumBlack) – AI Consulting
– Design and Implementation of Agentic AI and LLM use cases in supply chain portals. Working with cross-
functional teams (.NET developers, testers) to propose AI-driven solutions. Designing internal
Assistants/Agents to reduce training time for vendors using smart forms and chat-guided shipment creation
Senior Data Scientist Nov 2022 – Jul 2025
TransOrg Analytics Gurugram, India
• Tata Starbucks - Analytics Consulting
– Led a team of 6 to provide consulting to client with 450 + stores across India, designing and implementing
customer analytics solutions to drive customer acquisition, frequency, reactivation and operational efficiency.
– Segmented 3M+ Tata Starbucks loyalty customers into 32 actionable groups using RFM, K-means, and business
rules to drive lifecycle campaigns, leading to ₹1.7 Cr in monthly lift & tailored offers to boost retention.
• RBL Bank – Data Science Consultant
– Developed a logistic regression model to build a credit risk application scorecard to predict Probability of
Default (PD) tailored to the client’s lending portfolio. Evaluated model performance using Gini Coeff, KS, and AUC
Data Science Researcher Dec 2021 - Jun 2022
LOHUM CLEANTECH PVT LTD Greater Noida, India
• Developed an ML regression model that reduced cell testing time by 50 percent from 4 to 2 hours, increasing daily
battery production. Implemented systems for data collection, cleaning to enhance manufacturing efficiency.
Data Science Intern Oct 2021 - Dec 2021
Analytics Vidhya Gurugram, India
• Designed an information retrieval using scraped forum texts to gauge organizational sentiment (F1 score: 0.79)
and developed a Data Science skill evaluation tool to boost website traffic on Statistics, ML, NLP, and SQL.
Senior Researcher Jun 2017 - Dec 2018
ATTENTIO RESEARCH CENTER– GLOBAL DATA Hyderabad, India
• Conducted global research on power plants, overseeing data generation and developing a central database.
Prepared monthly reports on power commodities for client insights, while creating an OCR pipeline using Image
Processing algorithms and OpenCV to improve data extraction accuracy from documents, PDFs, and invoices.
EDUCATION
Specialization in Data Science and Machine Learning, Scaler 2020-2021
B.Tech in Power System Engineering, University Of Petroleum and Energy Studies, 67.6% 2013-2017
Class XII Science, St. Xavier’s Sr. Sec. School, 79.8% 2012-2013
