Sanavvar Khan
Email: sanavvarkhan144@gmail.com
Mobile No: + 91- 8745837600.
Work Experience : 10.9 Years Designation: Technical Lead (Full Stack )

Seeking assignment in project management & software development with a growth oriented organization.

Professional Summary:

Demonstrated exposure in full life-cycle implementations with skills in executing Software Development Life Cycle
(SDLC) in compliance to quality standards.
Excellent Analytical and programming skills in Software Designing and Development.
Proficient in developing, maintaining and supporting large scale application products starting from development.
Highly capable to adapt new application environment.

Work Experience : 10.9 Years

Currently working as Technical Lead (full stack) in Cognizant .
3+ Years experience as a Lead Consultant (full stack) in HCL .
3.9 Years experience as a Sr. Software Engineer in Velocis . Included 7 months of Experis IT payroll .
2.5 Years experience as a Software Engineer with Netsutra.com.

Technical Skill:

Primary Skills : Core Java , java 1.8 , Spring Mvc , Spring Boot ,Spring Security, Hibernate , Jpa , CrudRepository , Mapper , RESTful Api , Apache Kafka , Apache Camel , Micro Services (JWT , Eureka Server , Api Gateway , Resilience4j ,CI/CD Pipeline Zipkins & Sleuth , Saga Design Pattern ), Graphql, Github Copilot-AI model, Redis Cache , kubernetes , ELK(Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana) , Actuator , Prometheus , Grafana.
Web Technology	: Html , CSS , JavaScript, XML , JSON , JQuery , Augular 8 , React and React with Redux.
Cloud Technology 	: AWS, Azure.
Web Security	:  JWT
Devops 	: Bitbucket ,Docker, Jenkins Pipline, Agile.
Database	: Sql , Mysql , db2 , Oracal,
Server	: Apache Tomcat 8.x .
Development Tools	: Eclipse , MyEclipse ,Intellij Community,Visual Studio Code , Jira ,





Functional:
Managing requirement gathering and finalization of technical and functional specification.
Designing, developing , and debugging of the application.
Cooperating & communication with other team members for efficient management work.
Delivering & implementing the project as per scheduled milestones.
Ability to work either alone or as part of a team (preferred).
Highly Motivated and Self starter who solves the problem with a business eccentric view.
Most Importantly, ability to learn and adapt quickly the new technologies.

Academic Credentials:

2014 MCA from Kite College Meerut.
2011 BCA from Trident College Meerut.
2008 Intermediate from R . S Inter Collage Meerut.
2005 High school from Jain Inter Collage Muzaffarnagar.





Current Project Overview :

 ) Husqvarna
Technology	: Micro Services (Spring Boot) Rest Api, jpa, Java 8 and Angular 8, AWS , Mysql , CI/CD Jankins Pipeline.
Role	: full stack Lead , design the services , DevOps , Developing, and debugging of the application. Team Size	: 500.
Web Link	: https://www.husqvarna.com
Description : Husqvarna Warranty Service covers defects in material or workmanship under normal use during the Warranty Period. During the Warranty Period, Husqvarna will repair or replace, at no charge, products or parts of a product that prove defective because of improper material or workmanship, under normal use and maintenance.

 ) UOB
Technology	: Micro Services (Spring Boot) Rest Api,Apache Camel, Graphql , jpa, Java 8 and Angular 8, AWS
, Oracle , CI/CD Jankins Pipeline.
Role	: Lead the Team, DevOps , Developing, and debugging of the application. Team Size	: 120.
Web Link	: https://www.uobgroup.com/
Description : Overseas Bank Limited, often known as UOB, is a Singaporean multinational banking corporation headquartered in Singapore, with branches mostly found in most Southeast Asian countries.


 OUP (Oxford University Press)
Technology	: Micro Services (Spring Boot) , Kfka , ActiveMq, Rest and soap Api, Apache Camel ,XSLT,
: Java 8  and Angular8 , mysql , CI/CD Jankins Pipeline.
Role	: Lead the Team, DevOps, Designing, developing, and debugging of the application. Team Size	: 80.
Web Link	: https://global.oup.com
Description :	We are doing the work on service integration part of oup there we are get request form s4hena then transformed the request according to business requirement and send to destination path.


 Guj rera
Technology	: Micro Services (Spring Boot) with JPA (Hibernate) , Java 8 and Angular 8 , AWS, mysql,CI/CD Jankins Pipeline.
Role	: Lead the Team, DevOps ,Designing, developing, and debugging of the application . Team Size	: 30.
Web Link	: https://gujrera.gujarat.gov.in/

Description : To make Gujarat the premier destination for real estate investment regionally, nationally and globally, where the interest of the consumers and developers in the real estate sector are secure through effective and fair regulation.

 GSI
Technology	: Servlet, JSP,Struts2,Oracle Database.
Role	: Developing and debugging of the application.
Team Size	: 20.
Web Link	: www.gsi.gov.in

Description: The main functions of GSI relate to creation and updation of national geoscientific information and mineral resource assessment. These objectives are achieved through ground surveys, air-borne and marine surveys, mineral prospecting and investigations, multi-disciplinary geoscientific, geo-technical, geo-environmental and natural hazards studies, glaciology, seismotectonic study, and carrying out fundamental research. Outcome of work of GSI has immense societal value. Functioning and annual programs of GSI assume significance in the national perspective.
 MUFG Bank

Technology	: Servlet, JSP ,Struts 2 , DB2.
Role	: Designing, developing, and debugging of the application.
Team Size	:10.
Web Link	: https://www.bk.mufg.jp/global/


Description: MUFG (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group) Bank is Japan's largest bank and one of the world's largest, with offices throughout Japan and in 40 other countries. We build long-term relationships with our customers, promote real economic growth ,and contribute to orderly capital markets that serve society. The welfare of our customers and employees is always top of mind. Learn more through these links.
 ONGC India
Technology	: Micro Services (Spring Boot) with JPA (Hibernate) , Java 8, RESTful Web Services ,DB2 .AWS Role	: Designing, developing, and debugging of the application.
Team Size	: 20 .
Web Link	: http://reports.ongc.co.in
Description : Maharatna ONGC is the largest crude oil and natural gas Company in India, contributing around 70 per cent to Indian domestic production. Crude oil is the raw material used by downstream companies like IOC, BPCL, and HPCL to produce petroleum products like Petrol, Diesel, Kerosene, Naphtha, and Cooking Gas-LPG..

 TeacherMatch:
Technology	: Servlet, JSP,Spring MVC, Hibernate, Mysql.
Role	: Designing, developing, and debugging of the application.
Team Size	: 40.
Web Link	: https://nc.teachermatch.org/

Description: Teacher Match was founded by a group of dedicated , passionate educators, including nationally awarded K-12 instructors , who understand that teachers are the most critical factor in
Personal Details:
Date of Birth	: 1th Jun 1988.
Gender	: Male
Marital status	: Married
Nationality	: India.
Present Address	: N-44, H.I.G Sector 23 Sanjay Nagar, Ghaziabad (Uttar Pradesh). Permanent Address	: Jogiya Khera , Muzaffarnagar Uttar Pradesh.
I do hereby declare that all the above given information is correct to the best of my knowledge.

Date:---------------

Place:	(Sanavvar khan)