
                       CURRICULUM VITAE



  Santhosh D.S
  #38, 5th Cross, 33 Main, Dollars scheme,
            Email ID: santhoshds913@gmail.com
  BTM Layout I stage,


  Bangalore-560068
                       Mobile     :  91-9686862628



 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

      11+ years of experience in application development by using Java and
Cloud Web Technologies


      Strong Background in Multithreading, Data Structure, Algorithms, OOPs
Concepts, Java Collections


      Hands on experience on  developing the applications by using AI
technologies like GitHub Copilot


      Extensive development experience on frameworks like Spring Boot,
Spring JPA, Spring Security

       Hands on experience on Kafka, Micro Services, Restful Web Services,
Soap, Redis, Apache Camel

       Expertise on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Spring
Cloud, PCF Cloud Servers

       Excellent work experience on Kubernetes, Docker, OpenShift, Jenkins
and Git, Logger

       Hands on experience on MongoDB, Oracle 19c, PostgreSQL, MySQL, and
SQL queries

       Strong understanding on the unit testing of applications by using
Junit, Mockito, Spock frameworks

       Extensive experience on Splunk, Kibana, Grafana, Logger, Jenkins,
Git, Jira, Confluence

       Good working knowledge as a tech lead on agile methodology by using
scrum principles

       Good exposure on Domain Driven Design (DDD) and Test-Driven
Development (TDD)

       Good understanding on end-to-end product development and delivery as
an individual contributor



WORK EXPERIENCE:

                Current Employer     :  Wells Fargo India Pvt Ltd,
Bangalore
       Designation        : Java Tech Lead
               Duration                          :     21st September 2020
  to till date

                Previous Employer    :  Fidelity Investments Pvt Ltd,
Bangalore
       Designation        : Senior Software Developer
               Duration                          :     17th November 2014 to
  16th September 2020

                Previous Employer          : Thomson Reuters Pvt Ltd,
Bangalore
       Designation        :          Senior Software Engineer
               Duration                          :     21st June 2013 to
  27th October 2014






EDUCATIONAL   QUALIFICATION:


    ●  BE in COMPUTER SCIENCE   with 86.15% in Malnad Collage of Egg,
    Hassan. In
      Vishweshvaraiya Technical University (VTU). In the year 2010.



ACHIEVEMENTS:


     1. I have abroad (UK) work experience for 1 year.

     2. I have received the Appreciation and Green belt certifications in
        my current organization.


TECHNICAL   SKILLS:


       Operating Systems    :     Windows 10/11, Linux

       Browser Side    :    Angular JS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON

       Language  :     JAVA

       Frameworks       :             Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate,
       Spring Data JPA
       Could Servers    :    AWS, Microsoft Azure, Spring Cloud, PCF
       Cloud Containers      :     Kubernetes, OpenShift, Docker
       Databases  :     MongoDB, Oracle19c, MySQL, SQL Server,
       Web services     :     SOAP, Restful Service, Micro Services
       JMS servers                                        :    Kafka,
       ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, IBM MQ
       Testing Frameworks    :      Junit, Mockito, Power Mockito, Easy
       Mockito
       Build Tools      :         Gradle, Maven, Jenkins, Microsoft Azure
       Devops
       Source Repositories  :     GIT, GitHub, GitLab, SVN, Bitbucket


       Tracking Tools  :    Kibana, Splunk, AWS Cloud Watch, Grafana


       Application Tracking Tools :     Jira, Confluence, SharePoint,
       Bugzilla


                  Web application Servers     :          Apache tomcat,
JBoss , Web sphere
       File Components  :    Apache Camel, Cleo, Chef
       Cache Server     :    Redis
       Shell script    :    Bash shell script (Putty), Linux


       IDE  :    Eclipse, STS, IntelliJ, GitHub Copilot, Postman








Project #1:

       Project Title   :    Echeque Payment
       Client    :     Wells Fargo
       Title     :     Java Technical Lead
                  Duration   :    September 2020 to till now
       Team size :     7
       Operating System     :     Windows 10/11, Ubuntu 10.04
       Programming Language :     Core JAVA
       Web services     :   Restful Web Service, SOAP, Micro Services
       Frameworks      :    Spring Data JPA, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate
       Cloud Servers   :    Microsoft Azure, AWS, OpenShift, Kubernetes
       Databases :     MongoDB, Oracle 19c, SQL Developer, SQL
       JMS Servers     :    Kafka, RabbitMQ, IBM MQ
       Build Tools     :    Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, GitHub copilot
       Source Repositories   :            GIT, GitHub, GitLab
       Description      :           Echeque payment is the digital banking
       service which is used for creating the echeque for banking security
       purpose. it’s a gateway between mobile banking and Wells Fargo
       Finacle core banking system. It receives the request from tablet
       banking system and create the echeque for new credit card or loan
       applications and also for delinquency status applications. It’s also
       used for paying delinquent loan or credit card dues and closure of
       them in the system.


Roles and Responsibilities:

                   1.  Understanding and analyzing the business and
       resource requirements.
                   2.  Designing and developing applications


                   3.  Coding and Project Management
                   4.  Resolve Production issues in a timely manner to
       minimize impact.
                   5.  System understanding of the existing applications
       and working closely with Business and technical
                        Stakeholder to manage ongoing changes.
                   6.  Interacting with onsite and offshore team in
       resolving their problems.
        7. Manage new releases by coordinating with different support teams
       for any new code Deployment



Project #2:

       Project Title   :    Proterra Apex
       Client    :     Proterra
       Title:    :     Senior Software Engineer
       Duration  :     November 2018 to September 2020
       Team size :     5
       Operating System     :     Windows 10/11, Ubuntu 10.04
       Programming Language :     Core JAVA
       Web services     :   Restful Web Service, SOAP, Micro Services
       Frameworks      :    Spring Data JPA, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate
       Cloud Servers   :    Microsoft Azure, AWS, OpenShift, Kubernetes
       Databases :     MongoDB, Oracle 19c, SQL Developer, SQL
       JMS Servers     :    Kafka, RabbitMQ
       Build Tools     :    Maven, Gradle, Jenkins
       Source Repositories   :            GIT, GitHub, GitLab
       Description      :           Proterra Energy fleet solutions include
       smart energy management products and services that range from
       technical assistance to full-service monitoring, management,
       optimization, and maintenance of your Proterra charging
       infrastructure. The Proterra apex connected vehicle intelligence
       system is cloud-based data platform, offering historical and
       Realtime performance information about your battery electric vehicle
       fleet to optimize bus and charging operation and reduce costs.




Roles and Responsibilities:

                   1.  Understanding and analyzing the business and
       resource requirements.
                   2.  Coding and Project Management
                   3.  System understanding of the existing applications
       and working closely with Business and technical
                        Stakeholder to manage ongoing changes.
                   4.  Interacting with onsite and offshore team in
       resolving their problems.
        5. Manage new releases by coordinating with different support teams
       for any new code Deployment




Project #3:

       Project Title   :    Red Card Email Letters
       Client    :     Fidelity Investments
       Title     :     Sr. Java Developer
       Duration  :     November 2014 to October 2018
       Team size :     4
       Operating System     :     Windows 7/10, Ubuntu 10.04
       Programming Language :     Core JAVA
       Web services     :   SOAP, Restful, Micro Services
       Frameworks      :    Spring Data JPA, JPA, Spring Boot, Spring Batch


       Databases :     Oracle, SQL Developer, MongoDB, SQL
       Build Tools     :    Maven, Gradle, Hudson, Jenkins, Drone
       Web Server      :    Apache tomcat 8
       File Components      :     Apache Camel, Cleo, Kafka, TVX
       Cloud Servers   :    PCF, Docker
       Build Tools     :    Maven, Gradle, Drone, Jenkins
       Source Repositories   :            GIT, SVN, Perforce, Biorepository
       Description      :           This Application is mainly used to send
       target red card policy privacy email letters to customers who are
       using the red card. It happens yearly once. The TSYS sends a huge
       file, and it gets trigger our application. Our application can
       extract required information out of that file and send it to PUMA
       API. The puma api will send the request to sales force team to send
       the email letters to corresponding customers and then we get a
       status response back from PUMA and then we send the statuses back to
       TSYS.








Roles & Responsibilities:

      1. Module and Feature Development, Bug fixing
       2. Requirement analysis, testing
       3. Coding, Debugging
       4. Integrating GUI, Track and generate defect report
       5. Design, Maintenance.


Project #4:

       Project Title   :    eReview (US)
       Duration  :     June 2013 to October 2014
       Team size :     6
       Operating System     :     Windows 7/10, Ubuntu 10.04
       Programming Language :     Core JAVA (1.10)
       Web services     :   SOAP, Restful, Micro Services
       Frameworks      :    Spring Data JPA, Mybatis, Spring Boot,
       Hibernate
       Testing Frameworks   :     Junit, Mockito, Power Mockito,
       Databases :     SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB, SQL
       Web Server      :    Apache tomcat 8
       Application Server   :     Jboss 6.4
       Cloud Servers   :    PCF, AWS, Docker
       Build Tools     :    Maven, Gradle
       Description     :    eReview application is a legacy application
       developed using .Net framework. We started working on moving all the
       functionalities from .Net to Java (backend) and Angular (UI). The
       application is used for reporting and reviewing purposes by
       different business folks in Fidelity. It consists of different
       workflows for different types of materials that must be reviewed.
       So, the same functionality was developed using the angular forms and
       java in backend to enhance the user experience.




Roles and Responsibilities:

      1. Responsible for analysis of current programs including
      performance.
      2.  Analyze system specifications and translate system requirements
       to task specifications for junior programmers.
      3.  Responsible for developing new programs and proofing the program
       to develop needed changes to production of a quality product.


    Date     :

 Place     :     Santhosh D.S

