SARAVANA M  
Senior Software Developer at Torry harris integration solutions

Results-oriented Full stack developer with over 6+ years of experience in designing, developing, and deploying robust and scalable enterprise applications using Java, Spring Boot, React js with Micro-services architecture. Strong background in REST API development, cloud-native deployment using Docker and Kubernetes, and database design with PostgreSQL and MySQL. Proven ability to work in Agile environments and deliver high-quality code.

Senior software engineer	05/2023 – Present
Torry Harris Integration Solutions	Bengaluru, Technologies•	: Java 21, Spring boot (3x) with microservices, react js, 	Karnataka Postgre SQL, Kafka, MQTT, AWS, Docker, Helm, Kubernetes  . Developed and maintained scalable microservices using Java Spring•	 Boot(3x) with jdk 17, jdk 21.
Designing and developing UI/UX using react js, redux and tailwind css.• Increasing productivity using AI tools such as Gen-AI, GitHub Co-pilot,•	 ChatGPT etc.
Led a team of 6 developers and providing HLD, LLD and also grooming•	 session on the microservice API development .
Integrated third-party APIs and AI hub and messaging services like•	 MQTT, Kafka.
Designed and implemented secure REST APIs with JWT-based•	 authentication and authorization.
Containerized applications using Docker and deployed to Kubernetes•	 clusters.
 Leveraging the required design pattern while implementing the micro•	 services.
Software engineer	09/2019 – 04/2023
Torry Harris Integration Solutions	Bengaluru,
	Technologies•	: Java Spring boot with Microservices, React js, Postgre 	Karnataka
Sql, Apigee, Docker, Kubernetes,  MS Azure
Delivered high-performing modules with more than 80% unit test•	 coverage.
Played a key role in successful delivery of a critical application module•	 under tight deadlines.
Worked closely with architects to comprehensive product-level changes•	 and contributed to solution design for new changes.
Managing client calls.•
Implemented precise code leveraging features of Java 8, 11, 17.•
Associate software engineer	06/2019 – 08/2019 Torry Harris Integration Solutions	Bengaluru,


Client champion award
Awarded for managing the client calls and meets the customer expectation
Star performer
Awarded for delivering the optimized and quality code, Followed all the SOLID design principles and design patterns.
Mentor of the quarter
Received as mentor to team members

Client: Vodafone UK
Worked as a junior java developer

Bachelor of computer application	04/2015 – 08/2018
Kristy Jayanti university	Bengaluru