CAREER OBJECTIVE	

Seeking a challenging career with an organization where my analytical/technical skills and knowledge are fully realized paving way to the pinnacle of professional success and self-actualization.

PROFILE SUMMARY

Currently Working at JP Morgan as Associate from Nov 2021.
Experience in event driven microservices deployed on AWS Cloud
Experience in Payments domain in an Acquirer Bank
Experience in Front office Electronic Trading in Interest Rate Swaps and Bonds domain
Part of a development team under the Rates Technology India Team which deals in EU/AMRS/APAC bonds and swaps flows’ negotiations and post trade flows (orders/trade management & STP flow)
Hands on experience in Java technologies like Spring MVC,Spring Boot,Hibernate,REST
Hands on experience in CICD technologies like Kubernetes and Docker
Hands on experience in messaging platforms like JMS, Apache Kafka
Knowledge on Microservices and related technologies
Effective communicator & team player with strong analytical and problem solving abilities.
Possess keen business acumen in analyzing and understanding business requirements, customer-value maximization.

ACADEMIC DETAILS


TECHNICAL SKILLS


Functional Skills Set

3 years of Payments domain experience 
5 years of BFSI domain exposure consisting of Retail, Corporate and Investment Banking.
3 years of experience in PHARMA domain
Strong client facing skills.
PROJECT SUMMARY


JP Morgan 
Duration : Nov 2021-Current
Designation: Associate


Project: Payments system 
Environment: Spring Boot, AWS, Apache kafka, Java Reactive Programming, Kubernetes, Docker 
Project Detail: Project is on AWS. JP is an Acquirer Bank and merchants are our clients.It's an event driven microservices system, wherein each MS is responsible for handling a particular flow in payments lifecycle initiated by Merchant. Like when a merchant wants to authorise it's request we have a Authorization service for it, similarly for capture, verification we have seperate services. These events then are sent to clearing and settlement. 
Role And Responsibilities: Responsible for implementing new features in an agile manner or in kanban mode. Promoting the code to higher environments and measuring the performance of it


Project: Merchant Subscriptions and Notifications
Environment: Spring Boot, AWS, Apache kafka, Java Reactive Programming, Kubernetes, Docker 
Project Detail: Project is partly on JP Morgan private cloud and partly on AWS. Merchant subscribes to certain types of notifications which are then saved into a nosql database. Whenever the event occurs a notification for the same is generated and sent to the call back url to the merchants. The project is based on micro services architecture and is event driven using Reactive programming in Java
Role And Responsibilities: Responsible for implementing new features in an agile manner or in kanban mode. Promoting the code to higher environments and measuring the performance of it

Bank of America 
Duration : Aug 2018- Nov 2021
Designation : Software Engineer ll B

Project: RATES eTrading Platform for Fixed Income Market (Bonds & Swaps) 
Environment: Spring Core,Hibernate,JMS,JMX,SQL
Project Detail:Working as a java developer in an inhouse multi module/system, etrading platform which facilitates exchange connectivity using FIX protocol, order negotiation and post trade management flow. Developed and maintained the multi service architecture which included B2C/B2B session management,order/trade execution,positions management features. Facilitated STP flow of IRS/Bond trades to various SOR internal downstream systems. Worked on generation of reports of different products like Futures etc which were consumed by various systems.

Cognizant Technology Solutions
Duration : Feb 2014- July 2018
Designation : Programmer Analyst

Project: Development and Enhancement activities for a PHARMA Company 
Environment: Java, Oracle 10g, SQL, Web Services, JavaScript , HTML, CSS
Project Detail: The company is a world leader in pharma products and uses OpenText/ Livelink tool for its documentation/business process management activities. Worked on development and enhancement of various live reports and web reports to generate details of the users, documents, workflows etc. in the system. Worked on creation of Java applications, Web reports using JavaScript and HTML for migration related activities.

Project: Banking Application 
Environment: Java J2EE, Spring 3/4, Oracle SQL,JDBC Template, RESTful Web services, MAVEN
Project Detail: Worked on Banking Application for a major bank on retail and corporate domains. Worked on creation of RESTful web services for the application using Spring Boot. Automated report generation process for the team.

Project: Reporting Tool for Investment Bank (Agile Method)
Environment: Java J2EE, Oracle PL/SQL, Tomcat 8. Spring 3/4, Hibernate
Project Detail: Worked on a reporting system in java which generated and emailed reports on a UNIX based job trigger. Wrote agile stories after requirement gathering and understanding the functional specifications. Worked on Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures, Triggers and Functions. Gained a good domain knowledge of various financial concepts like equity and fixed income funds, hedge funds, ledger and fund valuation.
Project: Tax calculation Application 
Environment: Java J2EE, JavaScript, React, PL/SQL and Tomcat 8
Project Detail: Worked on a TAX application which is used to streamline and standardize the processing of tax transparent and tax non-transparent events for all impacted clients of a reputed investment bank. Worked on the development and maintenance of screens using React for the application. Worked on Spring 3 framework. Also worked on Oracle PL/SQL for the application.

    
 Awards and Achievements
Digital Super Star Award- 3rd Quarter 2016
Gold and Silver Awards - 2018-2020

 					    Trainings
Industrial Agile
Trainings on Spring, Hibernate, Microservices

  Extra-Curricular Activities
Certifications in College for organizing cultural events.