Workday Technical Consultant

Shaik Azeez	Mobile: +91- 9391401720
Email ID: sazeez2215@gmail.com

Having around 3+ years of experience in IT, 3+ years as a Workday Consultant in configuration, developing reports, and Integrations, and Along with Core HCM
Good experience in Reports and Integration along with Core HCM.
Extensively worked on Custom Reports. Advanced Reports, Matrix and Composite reports, Calculated fields, Dashboard creation, Enterprise Interface Builder (EIB), Core Connector worker (CCW), Workday Studio, Document Transformation (DT), Business Process, Security, PICOF, and PECI.
Developed Inbound and Outbound Interface programs using EIB, Core Connector.
Expertise in creating job Profiles, Job Families Job Family Groups.
Clear communication and interaction with clients as well as on-site team and assigning work to team members.
Having good experience in PRISM Analytics. Workday Prism Analytics extends Workday reporting by blending internal and external data into a single source of truth.
Conducting Integration Testing, Deployment, and Documentation.
Resolving Integration Production issues and Optimizing Integrations based on HR and Business Priorities.
Involve in Schedule reports/Integrations and upgrades and maintenance activities of the workday.
Maintenance and creation of Workday Supervisory organization, Locations, Positions, and Positions. Cost centres, Cost centre Hierarchies.
Responsible for the creation of ISU, and ISG and assigned/managing security groups and domain/BP level Permissions.
Analyse and assign User-based roles and position-based roles as part of Team member's move to new positions, roles, and responsibilities.
Very good Experience in Unit Testing and Regression Testing.
Experienced in Configuring Security to System and Integration users and providing field-level and Business object-level Security Access to Users to run the Interfaces.

Good working Knowledge in Technologies XML, XSLT, SOAP, XPATH, and Web Services.
Excellent working knowledge in Developing, Debugging, Unit Testing, and Regression Testing of Workday Applications.
Building Custom Integration for Document Delivery, Developing Document Transformation, and Integration using Document retrieval.
Configure business process Hire, terminate, create position, job family, Leave of absence, etc.
Proficient in Agile Methodology Jira ticketing and Service Now ticketing toll.
Hands-on experience in Gathering business Requirements, Design, and analysis of Applications.
Good communication with skilful analysing and problem-solving abilities.
Skilled in migrating reports from lower tenant to sandbox and production using Object Transporter, and experienced in providing production support
	Educational Qualification	

Bachelor of Engineering and Technology (B.tech) Global Institute of Engineering and Technology, Moinabad, Hyderabad-July-2023

	Project Summary	
Currently working as a workday technical consultant in Infosys from Aug’ 2023 – Till Date..
Worked as Workday Technical consultant in Mphasis from July 2022-August 2023.

	Technical Skills	









DECLARATION
I hereby declare that all the details furnished are true to the best of my knowledge

(Shaik Azeez)