 Nayak S P
Big data Testing/Production Support
shaktinayak.sn@gmail.com                                                                7619650414
Professional Summary: 
● Over 8 years of expertise in the IT industry. 
● Total 5 years of experienced Bigdata Testing, Manual Testing, Data Engineering Testing.
● Total 3 years of experienced into Production Support and Application Support, L2 Support and L3 Support
       ● Technically proficient in the UNIX operating system. 
● Technically sound in Hadoop Ecosystem PySpark, Spark, Hive, HDFS, Hive, Python, Pytest
● Providing the support for the testing region for the testing activities. 
● Worked to develop and implement various systems using Shell scripting and created the automation test case using shell script. 
Technical Skills 
Environments Linux 
Databases Oracle SQL, PostgreSql 
Servers on-premises 
Big data Tools PySpark, Spark, Hadoop, Big data, HDFS, Hive, Shell Scripting, Python, Scala 
Domains HealthCare, Banking, Telecom 
Education: 
BTech – Information Technology– Vignan Institute of Technology and Management, Biju Patnaik University and Technology, Odisha, India, 2014 
Professional Experience:
      Mphasis India, Bangalore Sep 2025-  16-Mar-2025
Project: Morgan Stenlay 
Summary: Involved in the Big data Testing for the application and Testing the data pipeline and supporting the production activities. 
Technologies 
PySpark, Spark, Hadoop, Big data, HDFS, Hive, 
ETL Testing, Apache
        Responsibilities: 
● Worked on testing the end to end data pipeline for testing.
● Providing Support if any issues come in the production region. 
● Providing the support for the testing region for the testing activities end to end.
● Performed schema validation, null checks, duplicate data checks, and data reconciliation between source and target systems. 
● Leveraged tools such as Hive, PySpark, HDFS, and Sqoop for end-to-end testing and verification in a Hadoop ecosystem. 
● Providing the fixes to the issues if any. 

V2Soft Pvt Ltd, Bangalore Feb 2025- May 2025
Project: Ford Automobile
Summary: Involved in the Big data Testing for the application and Testing the data pipeline and supporting the production activities. 
Technologies 
PySpark, Spark, Hadoop, Big data, HDFS, Hive, Shell Scripting, Azure
Python, Scala, pytest, ETL Testing, Apache
Responsibilities: 
● Worked on testing the end to end data pipeline 
● Providing Support if any issues come in the production region. 
● Providing the support for the testing region for the testing activities end to end.
● Performed schema validation, null checks, duplicate data checks, and data reconciliation between source and target systems. 
● Leveraged tools such as Hive, PySpark, HDFS, and Sqoop for end-to-end testing and verification in a Hadoop ecosystem. 
● Providing the fixes to the issues if any. 
Carelon Global Solution Duration Jun 2021 – Feb 2025
Project: Preference Center, Do not Disturb
Summary Project involved to support Big data applications for production and test environments. 
Technologies:
PySpark, Spark, Hadoop, Big data, HDFS, Hive, Shell 
Scripting, Python, Pytest, Apache, ETL Testing, Azure
Responsibilities: 
● Working on a total of Three healthcare projects 
● Worked on manual testing to validate the Hadoop jobs using Spark, Python, SQL, Shell Scripting. 
● Worked on code fixes for the test region and raised defects to the development team. ● Worked on a migration project (CDH to CDP Migration, Mongo Upgrades) for testing the Lower region Hadoop jobs, Spark jobs, Shell scripting, business logic, data validation. ● Worked on providing testing activity on various data validation activities such as MongoDB, Hive, HDFS and carried out various test cases. 
● Worked to develop and implement various system health checks using Shell scripting and created the automation test case using shell script. 
● Worked on planned released testing activities. 
● Worked on testing activity to repeat the issue and analyze the bug in the test and production region 

Wells Fargo India Pvt, Ltd Jan 2020 – Nov 2020 
Technologies: Hadoop, Big data, HDFS, Hive, Shell Scripting, UNIX
● Worked on supporting the production environment. 
● Worked on analyzing the issues which come part of Jira or Service now ticketing system. 
● Worked on application failure and providing the root cause analysis to business partners. 
● Part of operations worked as L2/L3 engineer, wherein have to test the long running job in UAT server and if required tune it, providing the RCA to business users. Handled the data validation part based on the business requirement and loading the data to oracle, which involves code fix as well. 
Eco Energy Insight PVT LTD Feb 2019 – Jan 2020
Technologies:Hadoop, Big data, HDFS, Hive, Shell Scripting, UNIX
● I worked as a big data developer. Setting up big data development pipelines. 
● Having hands-on experience on Hadoop eco system such as Sqoop, hive, HBase, Hadoop, hadoop1.x, hadoop2.x, yarn architecture. 
● Day to day activity importing the data from RDBMs to HDFS using Sqoop. 
● Worked on increment load. 
● Worked on incremental last modified. 
● Worked on Avro data using Sqoop incremental load, for schema changes in hive tables. ● Worked on a parquet file system. 
● Worked on a semi structured data set. 
● Worked on creating hive managed tables and external tables with location based. ● Setting up a pipeline for the Sqoop and hive data integration. 
● Writing hive scripts to automate the data flow from Sqoop to hive tables. 
● Worked on hive partitions and bucketing. 
● Spark. 
● Worked on for setting up spark codes and deploying the jars in production. 
Pelatro Solution PVT LTD Sep 2016 – Feb 2019 
Technologies: UNIX, Shell Scripting, HP Service Manager, SNOW
● Worked on supporting the production environment and test region. 
● Worked on analyzing the issues which come part of Jira or Service now ticketing system. ● Worked on creating shell scripting to create various automated checks for the platforms, to ensure the system and platform should run smoothly. 
● Worked on application failure and providing the root cause analysis to business partners. ● Worked on release activity on weekends for the production region. 
● Worked on manual testing to test the various test cases in terms of the production support team. 
● Worked on testing activity to repeat the issue and analyze the bug in the test and production region.