
SHIV KUMAR SUMAN
 BANGALORE, India 560064
 9066113005
 sumanim95.10@gmail.com





PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
 
Technical Lead in Infinite Computer Solutions, Bangalore and working on client project Nokia(Telecom) with an experience of 7.3+ years in OTN/NMS/EMS/SDN-ODL. I am looking for the opportunity to develop enhanced features, fixing bugs, delivering the RCA for an issue and writing the code for new functionality using core java,Multithreading, DataStructure and algorithm, . . Responsible for identifying the issue, troubleshooting the issue, providing the RCA, and working around the issue.
Responsible for creating E2 instances, creating, building images and deploying them using Docker/Kubernetes.





SKILLS
 
Core Java
spring boot
Multithreading
Troubleshooting
Linux(RHEL)
Data structures
Algorithms
Microservices
SNMP
NetConf
TCP/IP
HTTP
 
HTTPS
NMS/NSP/NFMP/WS-NOC
SDN-ODL
Distributed Systems
Containerization
Docker
Kubernetes
Kafka
Hibernate
Unit testing
Code debugging





EXPERIENCE
 
TECHNICAL LEAD, 11/2024 - Current
Infinite Computer Solutions, Bangalore
Nokia WS-NOC: The WaveSuite Network Operations Centre (OTN) is a part of inter- operating network management modules and uses a modular design and a common resource base to efficiently deliver a set of network management services. The team performs comprehensive network management for the network infrastructure.
Responsible for the design and development of new features, including code implementation and unit tests.
Using the tech stack Java,Springboot, Rest API, Microservice, MySql, Kafka.
Responsible for performing the unit test cases.
Responsible for providing bug fixes, root cause analysis of the issue.

Responsible for replicating the issue, log analysis, debugging the code, and bench upgrade.
Responsible for managing calls and meetings with clients.

SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER, 11/2022 - 11/2024
Wipro, Bangalore, India
Company Overview: Virtuora Network Controller (NC) is the platform for a comprehensive, adaptable, highly modular suite of software products that enable you to build and grow a virtualized, programmable network. The Fujitsu Virtuora SDN product suite encompasses control, planning and design, operations and management, and service fulfillment and assurance functions.
Writing and Developing Rest API, feature enhancement, developing hotfixes, Patches by maintaining the Fujitsu code standard
Using the tech stack Java,Springboot, Rest API, Microservice, MySql, Kafka.
Responsible for creating E2 instances for development, testing. pre-product environment.
Creating the Image, building the image pushing the private registry and deploying them using docker and kubernetes.
Debugged application code, identified root causes of defects, and delivered timely hotfixes/patches to ensure uninterrupted system functionality.

NMS TAC ENGINEER, 02/2018 - 11/2022
Nokia Alcatel Lucent, Bangalore, India
Company Overview: Project NMS NSP/5620SAM: Network Services Platform (NSP/NFMP) helps you automate your IP, optical and microwave networks to simplify your operations, respond quickly to fast-changing demand, get the most from your resources and ensure maximum service performance and reliability.
Responsible for analyzing reported bugs by reproducing issues, identifying root cause (RCA), and providing appropriate resolution or fix, ensuring minimal impact on existing functionality.
Responsible for NMS application testing, tracking, and reporting bugs.
Applying several new patches and testing them.
Responsible for NFMP Upgrades, downgrades and patch installation.
Troubleshoots business and production issues by gathering information such as logs and data.
Backup and Restore process handling.
Managing Nodes and implementing the new changes in configuration.
Installation of NMS and Database, Recovery Database, Staging Database.




EDUCATION
 
Siddaganga Institute Of Technology, Tumakuru, 05/2018
Information Science and Engineering
GPA: 7.87 CGPA





CERTIFICATIONS
 
Network Routing Specialist (NRS1), 2019-11-01, 2020-01-01, Key functions of the Ethernet protocol. Key functions of an IP network. IP address classes, IP subnet masking, and IP super netting. Configuration of IP addresses and subnet masks on

router interfaces. Static and dynamic routing. IGP and EGP and the differences between the routing protocols. The basic operation and configuration of OSPF. The basic operation of BGPv4. TCP and UDP as transport protocols. The purpose and benefits of MPLS. How MPLS tunnels are used to support VPN services. The various services offered on the 7750 SR including VPWS, VPLS, and VPRN services.




ACHIEVEMENTS
 
Winner of 24 hours of coding hackathon





HOBBIES AND INTERESTS
 
Learning new technology
Coding on leetcode