
Name: Shruti Bawa
Contact Number: 7889281681
Email Address: sb.shrutibawa@gmail.com
Role: Senior DevOps Architect 
Total Experience: 13 years
Current Employer: Mobile Programming India Pvt. Ltd.



PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY


Dedicated and results-driven Cloud Architect with a strong focus on delivering strategic cloud Devops solutions to meet customer needs.
Applied Cost optimisation techniques and assisted in reducing around 70000 USD yearly for Clients.
Expert in designing and implementing Azure-based architectures, leveraging IaaS,PaaS,SaaS and DevOps services.
Skilled in automating infrastructure processes using Terraform.
Proven expertise in Bash Scripting and operational support for Azure environments.
Strong experience in Azure networking principles such as virtual networks, load balancers, application gateways.
Proficient in utilizing Azure Pipelines and Github for end-to-end automation of CI/CD pipelines.
Strong knowledge in implementing and managing Migration from on-prem to Cloud Services
Expertise in designing and implementing scalable architectures using Containerization tools such as Kubernetes.
Working on Monitoring tools such as Grafana, Zabbix and Azure Monitor.

TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES

Azure DevOps
Terraform
Private and public Endpoints
Azure Migration
Cloud Security
Helm Charts 
Kubernetes
Azure SQL Database
Grafana
Sonarqube
Jenkins

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Mobile Programming India Pvt. Ltd.					(Nov 2023 – Present)
Senior Architect Engineer	
Client: SmartLinx and OfferPad
Technology: Azure and AWS Cloud Architecture, Terraform,Kubernetes, PowerShell Scripting.
Worked on different projects assigned and highlighted the Cost optimisation techniques such as Storage tiering, right sizing and assisted in reducing around 70000 USD yearly for Clients.
Working on Design and implement scalable, secure, and cost-effective Azure architectures for enterprise clients
Implement best practices for cloud security, compliance, and governance.
Manged packaging the .NET application into Docker containers and then Setting up an AKS cluster and deploying the containerized application.
Working on designing, deploying, and securing a comprehensive environment in Azure, integrating a web app, function app, and Azure SQL Database using Terraform.
Executing Powershell Scripts to handle automatic clean-up in Azure SQL Database and working towards Cost optimsation.

Patona Enterprise, Remote						(Dec 2022 – Oct 2023)
Azure Architecture Engineer

Implemented hybrid cloud solutions, integrating on-premises and Azure resources, resulting in system availability and seamless workload management.
Deep understanding of Architectural framework, tools and metrics for build, test and deployment automation – Configuration Management, scalable mode of infrastructure deployment and best practices.
Create Docker files from scratch.
Currently working on operating production environments using Infrastructure as code (IaC) with Terraform.
Orchestrated the successful migration of on-premises infrastructure to Azure cloud, resulting in a 40% reduction in operational costs and improved scalability for the organization.

ITC Infotech, Gurgaon            						(Oct 2015 – Oct 2022)
Azure Admin
Client: Fidelity International 

Working on Azure virtual machine, Virtual network, Azure storage, Azure active directories, Azure subscriptions, Load balancer and Auto scaling.
Azure network experience, Vnet, Network security group, Load balancers, Application gateway traffic manager and VPN, Azure DNS.
Implementing and managing hybrid identities, MFA, conditional access policy, Azure AD join.
Managed Azure storage specially blob and file share with configure access keys and SAS Tokens.
Proficient in tool such as Office365, AD, Azure, Okta, Role based access (RBAC) and AD Users, Groups, AD connect, Custom Domains.
Deployment of basic infra services VNET, Subnet, Hub and Spoke Model and NSGs.

HCL Comnet, Noida      							(Jun 2014 – Sept 2015)
Cloud Computing

Deploy and Configure Windows Server, Active Directory, DHCP, Manage DNS.
Working on monthly patching activities on windows machines.
Working on removal of orphan resources in environment.
Moving resources to other resource groups for stabilization of the environment.
Removing other vulnerabilities from the infrastructure level. 
Performing all changes in infrastructure and following the ITIL methodologies.
Combining with other teams to work on changes that require sync ups. Virtual Machine in Azure.
Azure Compute services like Virtual Machine, Availability Set, Load Balancer, Resource Group.
Azure Storage services like Storage Account Managed, Unmanaged Azure User management services, Azure network infrastructure i.e. Vnet, Subnet & NSGs.
Configure Azure native backups and troubleshoot for backup failure.
Restoration of servers from backup recovery point.

iGate Global Solutions, Noida						(Jun 2013 – Jun 2014)
Service Desk Analyst

Managing Incidents, Requests and Service Catalogue tasks through Service Now.
End user support issues (via call, email, chat or walk-in) are done within the specified SLAs and priority as per client.
Resolution of messaging issues related to Outlook, Lync 2013, etc.
Knowledge of SCCM Client Tool.
Working to minimize the adverse effect on the business of incidents and problems and to proactively prevent the occurrence of incidents, problems and errors.
Devising Service improvement plans.
Ensuring quality of tickets and customer satisfaction.

HCL									(Aug 2011 to April 2013)
Technical support officer
BT Global (Offsite)

• ITIL Roles and Responsibilities 
• Ensuring Maintaining SLA’s 
• Communicating with users over IM and at times on call for end to end tracking 
• Deals with issues such as creating tickets for lost emails and contacts of the hackedaccount 
• Troubleshooting on internet such as no web page, no internet connections 
• Worked on various Operating Systems

COURSES

Azure Admin-AZ104, Microsoft	(Aug 2021 – Aug 2022)
Azure Devops-AZ400, Microsoft (Sept 2022)

EDUCATION AND CREDENTIALS

B.Tech.									(Aug 2007 – Jun 2011)
Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar

