Shubham Tiwari
Offering 15 years of commendable expertise in Project, Transition Management, Process Management, People & Team Management, Agile, Scrum, Application Operations, IT Infrastructure, Process Management, Customer Success with an organization of repute.



Phone: +91-9560835666	E-Mail: tiwarishubham@gmail.com


Executive Profile
A Poised, articulate, goal oriented, Agile, Scrum & Transition and Project Management professional with proven success of 15 years.
Proven experience in managing GCCs, client ODC engagements or global delivery models.
Excellence in communication, stakeholder management, and negotiation skills. Strong understanding of SDLC Agile, Scrum, Kanban, SAFe 5(ARTs) and Waterfall methodologies, strong understanding of agile metrics and processes.
Been responsible for service chains of a specific business service / product cross various organizational units and my delivery account in accordance with the agreed SLA/OLA.
Exceled all KPIs and SLAs, OLAs, CSAT and utilization of the contracted services. Maximized customer and client satisfaction.
Ensured the quality of provided services and provides operational support. Coordinated, managed and monitored operational performance.
Identified, formulated and implemented the improvement of processes and policies to maximize operational output.
Expertise in data-driven decisions through analysis of KPIs such as risk, scope, schedule, quality, customer satisfaction, and cost efficiency, also initiated and executed continuous improvement projects.
Migrated existing IT infrastructure (on prem to cloud) and recommended. Modernized, consolidated strategies based on industry best practices by thorough technology assessments.
Ensure all proposed solutions adhere to relevant regulatory requirements, e.g. ISO, GDPR, SOX, GXP etc. along with industry standards, and internal policies.
Lead a €2 M(penalty) EOL project, achieved 95% success in saving penalties through strategic RAL negotiations and process optimization.
Skilled at strategizing plans to measure and optimize revenue, cost, budget, cash inflow with sustaining profitability of operations and improving service delivery.

Tools & Skills:
Tools: Petrol, OBM, SiteScope, Service-Now, BMC-Remedy, Jira, Active Directory, O365, MS-Project, Service Manager9, Salesforce, Boxi & BI, Share-point, Asset Manager, Power- BI, HP Suite (Monitoring), MS Office suite (Strong hands-on experience in Excel & Power Point)
Skill Competencies: Transition, Program & Project management, Cloud Migration, Stakeholder & Vendor management, ITIL & ITSM Infrastructure Management, Network Support, Production & Application support, Asset & Configuration Management, IT Operations, Continues Service Improvement, Major Incident (SaaS & Cloud Environment) & Problem Management, Change Management, Release & Deployment, Identity and Access management.

Certifications



Key Impact Areas
Infrastructure Transition /Project/ Process Management

Service Delivery, IT Infrastructure Management

Engineering, AWS, Azure, GCP,

Vendor & Stakeholder Management

Service-Now, IAM, Asset & Configuration Management

ITIL v3, ITIL 4, Agile
Methodology, Scrum & Kanban Risk Assessment & Mitigation
Disaster recovery, Business Continuity planning

IT Strategic Planning & Leadership, Team Management



Soft Skills
Leader\Team player & Motivator

Self-motivated, Thinker & Strategic Planner

Goal-Oriented, Problem Analyzer & Solver

ITIL v3 Foundation & Intermediate SO & ITIL 4 Foundation, Expert, CSA(Service-Now), CSM, SAFe 5, PMP(Pursuing)



Extra-Curricular:

  HSW & CSR activity lead for Bangalore in Vodafone	



Current Employer: Product Manager, Deutsche Telekom (T-Systems ICT India) Projects: CU International, PCPS, SAP-AO, AOS, Fusion QPEE
Duration: Feb-2019 – Till Date
Role:
Lead end to end Service-Now Migration for AOS, created and managed functional requirements/user stories/use cases and associated deliverables - process flows, test cases.
Lead Petrol to SiteScope migration for AOS successfully achieved 100% cut over in just 3 months.
Prepared SOPS, detailed solution designs, technical diagrams, and high-level presentations for stakeholders and clients.
Provided Monitoring and Control solutions to optimize the performance of infrastructure components during and after transitions.
Been operational interface between the production, the service delivery management (SDM) and other delivery units for the ordered delivery elements.
Been Showcasing a consulting mindset by acting as a solution provider rather than an order taker
Identifying project/service stakeholders at an early stage and working with them to ensure that the deliverables are in sync with the benefits defined in the business case.
Planning, organizing, and monitoring the project to deliver high quality business solutions.
Defined the scope of the project/service, managing goals, risks, issues, and resources throughout the project lifecycle.
Mentored and managed team members, by giving constant on the job feedback, and by providing guidance

Ensured project quality of work meets defined governance, process standards and best practices.
Coordinated with application, data, artificial intelligence and security architects to ensure a holistic approach to infrastructure solutions as per industry trends.
Expertise in Scrum Meetings, Coaching & Mentoring, Sprint Retrospective Techniques and Sprint Reviews.
Ensured Compliance to Client’s SAP Methodologies, including Product Steering, facilitated
Artifacts/Deliverable/Milestone sign-off.
I have been engaged in managing all aspect of project, Process, SLM, SLAs, OLAs, SLOs and KPIs, ensuring the cost-effective delivery as per business need with maintaining high quality standards.
Expertise in interpreting and applying global best-practices with vast experience of managing OKRs, KPIs, KRAs, business model of in-house, Customer based and as third-party service provider.
Able to develop and maintain technical design of Service-Now CMDB (Configuration Management Database) for further use in ITSM processes.
Measured progress to ensure application releases are delivered on time, within budget, and met/exceeded expectations.
Responsible for implementing and managing release processes for code through development, test, and production environments.
Conducted Release Readiness, Milestone Reviews, and Business Go/No-Go reviews, Produced Deployment, Run Books, and Implementation Plans.
Created dashboards for monitoring of alerts\events & incidents to ensure that the SLAs, OLAs, SLOs are intact in round the clock 365 days industry model.
Working knowledge of agile methodologies like Kanban, Scrum etc.
Understanding of Lean and agile development methods.
Ensuring RCA delivery with highest level of relevance. Engage in escalation and facilitation for cross domain problem tickets. Engage customer side stakeholders and lead the weekly/monthly calls related to impact analysis.
Ensuring the end-to-end change implementation process is properly followed by team. Supporting the Operations teams in the Lifecycle of infrastructure component. Contribute to the industrialization of standard requests or changes. Lead escalation calls.
Providing inputs for configuration management team. Ensure high degree of accuracy in CMDB data.
Engaging in escalation, de-escalation and Continuous improvement plan, ensuring the right information is used by the vendor. Ensure the Known errors are periodically reviewed.
Good understanding of information security concepts with in-depth knowledge of IAM solutions.
Mentored, trained and encouraged skill development of project team members.
Collaborating with multiple internal\external stakeholders to deliver Change Management solutions and Continuous Improvements IT Project Teams, Dev-Ops, Design and Support Teams and software vendors.
Strong leadership capabilities, able to achieve distinct results in a complex matrix environment & to influence action without direct authority through collaborative, consultative approach & strong relationship building skills.
Achievements:
T-systems:
  Was awarded ‘The Resolute’ for report automation and SLA optimization & implementation.
  Was awarded for Delivery Excellence and Leadership for Fusion program.
Wells Fargo:
  Was awarded Best Performer for reports and analysis.
  Was awarded star of the month twice.
Vodafone:
	Was a key member of Core Transition and operations team, completed 7 transitions.
  Was awarded thrice for excellent performance of transitioning and establishing business delivery.
HCL:
 Was awarded Best Productivity award.
	Was awarded for instrumental ticket ageing and SLA management.
	Tech Mahindra:
  Was awarded thrice for outstanding performance by Group head (projects).
  Was awarded Star performer award twice by director operations.


Date: 1/19/2025	Shubham Tiwari