SHUBHAM SHARMA
Bengaluru, KA / India | +91 94 125 88466 | sushrdo@gmail.com | www.linkedin.com/in/sudoshubh

 SUMMARY	
Results-driven Software Engineer with 8 years of experience in designing, developing, and deploying scalable applications. Proficient in various modern technologies and frameworks, with a strong focus on delivering high-quality, maintainable code. Adept at collaborating with cross-functional teams to drive project success and achieve business goals.
TECHNICAL SKILLS: Java/Java 8 - OOPS/Collection Framework; Spring Boot Java Framework; Postman API Client; Maven; SQL; C; HTML; Linux; Ubuntu; AWS; Windows; Eclipse IDE; STS; VS Code; GIT; Citrix Workspace; VMware; WinSCP; Mongo 3T; IntelliJ IDE; Putty; Postgres; confluence; Jira; Kubernetes; Kafka; Jenkins, Build Piper.
 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE	
Samsung Research.	Bengaluru, Karnataka
Software Engineer	June-2025 – Present
Samsung My Galaxy App & CMS
Engineered containerized Java Spring Batch jobs on AWS Batch for scalable daily data aggregation and validation.
Developed a robust data ingestion system with the AWS SDK for Java to transform and load data into a central warehouse.
Optimized data retrieval by engineering multi-stage DB aggregation pipelines, reducing query latency by over 30%.
Enhanced MongoDB query performance for the application's data access layer by analyzing plans and enforcing index usage.
Designed efficient data extraction logic using MongoDB projections to minimize network payload for services.
Design complex MongoDB queries with lookup stages to perform server-side joins, simplifying application-level logic.
Built a RESTful reporting service with Spring Boot and mongo DB to generate complex, data-driven PDF documents on-demand.
Automated financial report generation by integrating a Java-based engine with multiple backend data sources.
Engineered a modular reporting solution in Java to programmatically create multi-sheet Excel reports with dynamic charts.
STANDARD CHARTERED RESEARCH & TECH.	Noida, U.P
Sr. Specialist Engineer	Nov 2023 – June 2025
In the past year, I optimized system performance by enhancing search mechanics with AWS Elasticsearch and implementing scalable, low-latency systems with Apache Kafka. Additionally, I developed 50+ microservices and improved code quality through rigorous testing with JUnit and Mockito.
Commerce Platform
Build highly scalable HLD and LLD in Confluence based on application requirements.
Implement Low Latency & high through systems for better performance with Apache Kafka.
Improve searching mechanics with AWS elastic search with Query DSL in in-house search services.
Deals system design trade-offs and constraints like rate-limiting, scalability, availability & consistency.
Developed and maintained Java-based applications using the Spring Boot framework

Product Catalog
Extensively using & implementing SOLID Principles & design patterns during development.
For Better code readability and code review in PR through comment & logging schemes slf4j/ log4j
Involve in the deployment life cycle of services in Jenkins and Kubernetes through the AWS cloud platform
Practical understanding of code deployment through Git-Bitbucket and Jenkins pipeline configuration
WISSDA CONSULTING PVT LTD.	Mulund, Maharashtra
Senior Software Engineer	Oct 2022 – Oct 2023
Developed RESTful microservices and APIs, leveraging Apache Kafka for event-driven architecture and configuring consumer-producer endpoints. Demonstrated strong skills in DSA, Java 8 Stream API, multithreading, and monitoring with Grafana. Contributed to Agile sprints via JIRA and implemented Swagger for API testing.
Master Data Management

Develop microservices based on Rest Architecture with web clients and feign clients.
Expose RESTful APIs to Consume and listen to topics with event-driven architecture (Apache Kafka).
Configure Kafka consumer and producer endpoint to listen & produce the topics along with payloads with Kafka (Pub-Sub) distributed system pattern.
Practical understanding of DSA and Java 8 Stream API, functional interface, GC, and Multithreading.
Monitoring service strengths and traffic by Grafana, and managing Maven dependencies
Involved in daily story sprint monitored through JIRA SCRUM/Agile Board
Make swagger-based Configuration in the module and services for Dev & QA testing of APIs

RPM International Group	Coimbatore, TamilNadu
Software Engineer	Aug 2020 – Oct 2022
Led the design and development of an Inventory Management System, streamlining stock maintenance and optimizing both inbound and outbound supply chain processes, resulting in improved operational efficiency and inventory accuracy.
Supply Chain Management Tool
The Restful web services call for CRUD Operation, POST, PUT, DELETE, and GET methods.
Reproduce the functionality in the development and training environment to get an insight into the live project & enhance workflow throughout the production environment.
Hands-on experience with tools like Postman, VS-Code, My-SQL Workbench, Eclipse & Spring Framework, Git & Gitlab.
The project includes technologies such as Java, Spring, Spring Boot V-3.2, Hibernate, RESTFull web APIs, Postman Maven, and AWS.
Boxinall Softech Pvt. Ltd.	Noida, U.P
Jr. Software Engineer	Dec 2017 – Aug 2020
Developed design HTML, CSS, Adobe XD Wireframe Model | Creative Design strategy | UI Fundamentals.
Instantiate the API into the project and analyze the data manipulated into understandable structure and graphs form.
Comprehend company standards of application software development and iterative development methodologies.
Project experience in Core Java developer with good knowledge of OOPS concepts, collection, and Microservices.

EDUCATION & OTHER
