

(+91) 9790700842
subrotuoam@gmail.com

Software Engineer	linkedin/subroto-paul

PROFILE SUMMARY	
Cloud-Native Software Engineer with 9 years of experience translating business requirements and functional specification into code modules and software solutions. Competent in AWS, Java, Spring boot and Microservices with sound knowledge of Object Oriented Design Patterns.
TECHNICAL SKILLS	
Languages	Java
AWS Skills	API Gateway, Lambda, S3, DynamoDB, SQS, SNS, Aurora RDS, CloudWatch, OpenSearch.
Technologies and Framework	Design Patterns, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Microservices, Hibernate, Terraform.
Methodologies:	Agile and Waterfall model.
Version Control Tool	Git
WORK EXPERIENCE	
Airbus India Private Limited	November 2021 - Present
Skywise: Health Monitoring
Collaborated with stakeholders to gather requirements and successfully developed and integrated data processing capabilities for the new A220 aircraft family.
Streamlined aircraft message processing by developing a single-point update API, replacing multiple conflicting endpoints, and ensuring consistent, non-duplicative database updates.
Successfully developed a pipeline to export data from the application to the foundry for real-time analysis by stakeholders.
Identified and resolved bugs to enable the successful processing of Trouble Shooting Tasks(TSM) related to aircraft faults.
Actively participating in support activities to solve bugs/issues to maintain the application.
Accenture	June 2020 - November 2021
Private Client Group (AIG)
Actively contributed to the microservices design and implementation of the module.
Successfully developed the task management functionality which continues to evolve. Interacted with BPM tool called Camunda for task management.
Gathered domain related information from the government provided services and processed received data for feeding it to Duck Creek, which does the insurance claims handling.
HCL Technologies	April 2019 – May 2020
Cloud SVC (USAA Bank)
Actively participated in the Database re-engineering activity and wrote several efficient queries.
Implemented the module that enables and tracks providing virtual resources to the user over cloud.
Localized and fixed several issues/bugs identified in the core product.
Tata Consultancy Services	July 2016 - March 2019
NIA Direct (New India Assurance Company Ltd.)
Actively involved in requirements gathering and implementation of the design.
Owned the development of renewal process, insurance claiming process, verification of the user with AADHAR and integration of the payment gateway.
Karma Engine : Gamification App (Group Technology and Innovation Office)
Successfully developed the components that monitor the daily user activity in the application.
Implemented a reward point system which passes user earned rewards to another component that issues badges after a threshold limit is reached.
Tata Ideas (Group Technology and Innovation Office)
Re-engineered the entire system for challenge creation and life cycle management.
Implemented the report generation module responsible to generate various reports.
Localized and fixed several issues/bugs identified in the core product.
EDUCATION	
Bachelor of Engineering (Computer Science) : Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University	2012 - 2016
AWARDS & HONORS	
Received ”Spot Award for Delivery Excellence” at Airbus.
Received ”Star Performer of the Quarter” Award at Accenture.
Received several verbal and written appreciations for my contributions.