


WORK EXPERIENCE
Software Developer 3
Oracle
06/2021 - Present	Bangalore
Product : Enterprise Manager. An Integrated platform which provides monitoring, administration, and lifecycle management capabilities for Oracle infrastructure- including databases, middleware, hardware, etc
Achievements/Tasks
 One of the major aspects of lifecycle management is patching, which is completely handled by OMSPatcher. An utility majorly built on DSA like Stack, LinkedList, Queue, etc to apply interim patches to the OMS component of Enterprise Manager.
 Explored product functionalities and core java utilities to design and develop multiple features like Holistic Patching, Rapid Platform update feature, OMSPatcher Status, Rollback feature for 24.1, etc. Exposure to complete product development lifecycle.
 The customer issues need a proper analysis and judgment of the current state of Environment and based on which, the solutions should be given. I have provided safe and intact steps to resolve the issues with the 100% success rate.
 Exposure to various areas in the product like EM install area, Patch packaging team, Agents team, QA automation to get broader perspective of the product.


Senior Software Engineer
Virtusa
09/2019 – 06/2021	Bangalore
Project : ORPMF : Project scope is to build a standalone application to reduce manual work and provide one stop destination for product modifications.
Achievements/Tasks
 Designing and Developing multiple services to cover functionalities of the current system using Java, Sprint Boot and Hibernate.
 Involved in design and implementation of DEVOPS model to existing system.
 Utilized Eureka Server and API Gateway services to implement Microservice architecture.
 To enable faster access on Application Static Data, have been using Spring Boot Redis Cache.
 Analyzing and Optimizing the code, which involved reviewing the existing code, converting the reusable code to common jars, etc.
 Been a regular part of Production Deployments(10 Days Sprint).
SKILLS




PERSONAL PROJECT
CustomsDutyFree(https://customsdutyfree.com/)
 CustomsDutyFree is the website where we can calculate customs duty, find HSCODES, etc.
 Built this website to understand end to end working mechanism of the website.


EDUCATION
Bachelor of Engineering
R. V. College of Engineering
06/2010 - 06/2014	Bangalore



Senior Software Engineer
GlobalLogic
08/2018 - 09/2019	Bangalor
Project: ABM (Account Based Marketing) : helps on account based marketing strategy which interacts with CRM systems to finalize the target accounts.
Achievements/Tasks
 Designing and developing services related to marketing for Marketo client and introduced various features in Account Based Marketing section of the company.
 Providing data fixes for any incorrect data updated by application for the customer. Deploying and Executing the patch in the production environment.
 Utilized Kafka for checking logs to troubleshoot the issues.

Software Engineer
Accenture
09/2014 - 08/2018	Bangalore
Project: TMD (Task Management Dashboard) : customer care solution to raise tickets on portal for any concerns/issues sent on specified mailboxes.
Achievements/Tasks
 Involved in Developing various parts of the system and troubleshooting the issues at different layers.
 Worked with different interfaces like AMPS (Synchronizing system), JOLT (Workflow Engine), FOOTCCAESIUM (Internal User DB), Solr (Elastic Search).
 Checking logs of various services in the project on daily basis and analyze the exceptions to optimize and reduce abnormal behavior of the system.
ACHIEVEMENS

SOM Awards
Achieved recognition and was nominated as Star of Month multiple times for exhibiting a positive attitude, by ensuring commitments are met and expectations are exceeded.