Thanni Ashok 
Email Address: ashokthanni2@gmail.com
Mobile No: 8179861813

SUMMARY

Having 4+ years of experience in IT industry comprising of Java/J2EE enterprise web application design, development, maintenance & support involving all SDLC activities like requirements analysis, design, implementation, reviews, unit testing, integration testing and production deployments.
Hands on experience on Raptor for designing and testing logic. 
Hands on experience in Microservice architecture. 
Hands on experience to write a java code using Java 1.8 Lambda Expression.
Hands on experience in J2EE frameworks like Spring Cloud, Spring BOOT with Microservices.
Hands on experience in creating spring boot application by using Spring security ,OAuth2 with JWT.
Hands on experience in ORM Tools Hibernate, JPA and Spring Data JPA.
Hands on experience in web services like RESTFUL.
Hands on experience in writing SQL Queries for  MySQL.
Hands on experience in  HTML,CSS,bootstrap,JavaScript ,React js.
Proficient in writing Unit Test cases by using testing tools Junit, Mockito.
Hands on experience in Source repository tools GITHub,Bit bucket.
Good experience in application build tools Maven.
Good experience in Java/J2ee Gang of Four design patterns.
Involved in client calls at various levels to getting keen understanding of the Requirements.


PROJECT EXPERIENCE

Project#1:

Client			:  Latitude Financial Services, Australia.
Role			: Full Stack  Developer
Project                             : Online Service Center (OSC)
Technologies		: JAVA8, Spring Boot, Hibernate ,Spring Cloud, RestApi,ReactJS,JSP, Spring MVC, mockito
Projects Summary:
OSC is an online application, which allows the user to register their product (credit card) online, login and check the credit card details online. Once the user’s credit card application is approved from eAPPS, physical card will be send to the user. Once the physical card is received, then user can register their card details in OSC and can check the transaction details, payment history, reward points etc. OSC also allows users to register and schedule bill payments whether it may be utility bills or credit card bill payments. OSC also allows customer to opt for physical or e-statements and provide option to redeem their reward points. Users can login any time and change their personnel settings and preferences.
Responsibilities:
Efficiently managed the tasks and working and delivering features in fast paced Agile development following scrum process, sprint and daily stand-up meetings.
Integration of Restful API with frontend application using ReactJS and React Redux.
Created and configured the backend development environment using Spring Boot and Spring AOP in which creating/consuming/publishing restful and soap web services.
Followed JAVA/JEE design patterns participated in backend coding in JAVA/JEE and coding Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception Handling and Transaction model to handle many requests.

Project#2:
             Project Name                 :  UOB Bank 
Role			: Java Developer 
Technologies		: Java 1.8,Spring Boot with Micro Services and Hibernate ,ReactJS,Spring Cloud,
    Restful API, JUnit.
Projects Summary:

               PIM (Product for Information Management for UOB Bank), a partially module for its Manual file management to Computerized information System. Which is capable of handling a large database of various types of accounts like Saving Bank, Current Account, Team Loan Account, Fixed Deposit account having a huge amount of account holder, also its capable of all type of query handling like date wise, month wise and year wise draft details, deposit details, debit details. It’s total information management for UOB bank.
Responsibilities:
Working on Spring Boot Microservices .
Design project structure and modules using Spring MVC and JPA.
Involved in backend coding and developing restful api.
Continuous integration, code optimization using Jenkins, SonarQube and bitbucket and code testing in Junit and Mockito unit testing tool.
Exception Handling and store the logging information in files.
Efficiently managed the tasks and working and delivering features in fast paced Agile development following scrum process, sprint and daily stand-up meetings.

Project#3:
             Project Name                 :   LVS migration
Client			:  PayPal ,Bangalore.
Role			: Java Developer 
Technologies		: Java 1.8, java 17 , Spring Boot with Micro Services and Hibernate ,jenkins,DataDog,
    Restful API, JUnit.
Projects Summary:

               LVS migration a migrating old services to new services with added features , we have services here like creditcasusserv, and CMPS serv , CACTUS, ARS , batch applications , migration need to be done  for all thease services .
Responsibilities:
Working on creditcasusserv and CMPS serv .
Developing some code accordingly for specific feature .
Involved in backend coding and developing restful api.
Wrote UTs and FTs for creditCasusserv like create-account ,link-account ,link-api and CMPS serv like payment-summary ,activity-summary,billpayConstrains .
Continuous integration, code optimization using Jenkins, SonarQube and gitHub and code testing in Junit and Mockito unit testing tool.
Exception Handling and store the logging information in files.
Efficiently managed the tasks and working and delivering features in fast paced Agile development following scrum process, sprint and daily stand-up meetings.

Project#4:
             Project Name                 :   GmlRaptor-Upgrade 
Client			:  PayPal ,Bangalore.
Role			: Java Developer 
Technologies		: Java 1.8, java 17 , Raptor , Spring Boot  and Hibernate ,jenkins,
    Restful API, JUnit.mockito .
Projects Summary:

               Raptor upgrade  a  Upgrade needed for raptor applications  from 4.3 or less then that versions to 4.5 version .
Responsibilities:
Working on preparing for an upgrade .
Maintaining a clean POM configuration and avoiding framework declarations use starter dependencies only in modules the main application 
Remove un used dependencies and order dependency based on scope and type movieing away from power mockito .
Resolve common upgrade issues and java upgrades .

PERSONAL SUMMARY:
Name			: Ashok 
Nationality		: India
