Tushar Lakhe
Data Engineering Associate Manager
Contact: +91-8378998857
Email: tusharlakhe25@gmail.com
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/tushar-lakhe-29646028/
Total Experience Summary and Accomplishments
14 Years in as Data
▪ Enterprise Data Architecture and Data Engineering Leader with 14+ years of experience
engineering Lead/
delivering platform-agnostic, cloud-native data solutions across banking, insurance,
Manager, Cloud
payments, and large enterprise environments. Proven expertise in data modelling, data
Migration Lead, Python
migration, metadata management, data quality, and governance within modern lakehouse
Automation Architect.
and enterprise data platforms
▪ Expertise in pyspark, SQL, Python, Cloud migration, python automation, ETL, bigdata
-------------------------------
Development.
▪ Strong experience in Full Life-cycle BI and Data warehousing projects inclusive of
Work History
requirements analysis, proof-of-concepts, design, development, testing and
Accenture, India implementation.
July 2021 - Till Date ▪ Strong experience in Salesforce and Informatica integration projects and bigdata to AWS
migration project.
InfoCepts Technologies ▪ Experience as DevOps and MLOps Engineer on GCP platform for building vertex AI pipeline.
Mar 2019 - July 2021
▪ Strong experience in working on big data technologies and cloud components/ services.
▪ Hands on using CICD pipelines (Jenkins and GIT, bitbucket, git actions)
Barclays, India
▪ Experience into api automation using karate framework, python, and gatling.
Sep 2018 - Mar 2019
Accenture, India Technical Skills
Apr 2015 - Sep 2018
Primary Skills ETL Engineer, Data Engineer, Python Automation.
IBM, India
Oct 2014 - Apr 2015
Big data and Cloud Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, pyspark, AWS athena, EMR, S3, RDS,
Technologies RedShift, GCP GCS, DataFlow, DataProc, GKE, pyspark,
Wipro Technologies,
databricks, glue, airflow.
India
Nov 2011 - Oct 2014 BI Tools MicroStrategy, Tableau
ETL & other tools Informatica Power Center, IICS, Karate, python automation,
------------------------------- Kafka, GitHub, Git actions, Jenkins, Spinnaker, Terraform.
Education
Databases Oracle, memsql, DB2, SQL server, Snowflake, Big Query,
Qualification
Data Bricks, RedShift
Project Management Tools Azure DevOps, Quality Center, JIRA, ALM
B.S Computer Science
(2011)
Certifications
• Databricks Certified Data Engineer Professional
• Google Cloud Certified – Professional Cloud Data Engineer
• Google Cloud Certified – Professional Cloud DevOps Engineer
• Amazon Web Services (AWS) Certified Data Engineer Associate
• Databricks Certified Data Engineer Associate
• SnowPro Core Certification
• Amazon Web Services (AWS) Certified Solution Architect - Associate
• Google Cloud Certified Associate Cloud Engineer
• SAFe 6 Product Owner / Product Manager
• AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner
Page 1
• Microsoft Certified: Azure Fundamentals
• Salesforce Certified Service Cloud Consultant
• Salesforce Certified Business Analyst and Administrator
Project Profiles
Project Details Responsibilities
American Express ▪ As Data engineering lead, designed architecture for batch applications, data extracts, loading
strategies, cleansing, data quality and profiling
Organization ▪ Directed a team of data engineers in building and optimizing data pipelines, ensuring data
Accenture, India accuracy and efficiency.
▪ Working with the stakeholders to understand migration requirements for the source systems,
Role and business usecase and analytics reports.
Associate Manager (Lead ▪ Responsible for the end-to-end development on GCP platform, code conversion, dag setup
Data Engineer) and scheduling.
▪ Developing processes in Spark, Writing complex SQL queries, Building ETL/data pipelines
▪ Integrate workflows and pipelines with CI/CD systems, ensuring smooth automation of build,
test, and deployment processes.
▪ Signoff and prod deployments, prod parallel and cutover.
Project Details Responsibilities
Mondelez Food Safety ▪ As Data Bricks Data engineer lead, designed architecture for batch applications, data extracts
Program loading strategies, cleansing, data quality and profiling
▪ Directed a team of data engineers in building and optimizing data pipelines, ensuring data
Organization accuracy and efficiency.
Accenture, India ▪ Working with the stakeholders to understand requirements for the source systems, and
business usecase and analytics reports
Role ▪ Utilizing medallion architecture and unity catalog for development.
Associate Manager (Lead ▪ Responsible for the end-to-end development on data bricks platform, workflow setup and
Data Engineer,) scheduling.
▪ Developing processes in Spark, Writing complex SQL queries, Building ETL/data pipelines
▪ Integrate workflows and pipelines with CI/CD systems, ensuring smooth automation of build,
test, and deployment processes.
Project Details Responsibilities
Lloyds Banking Group ▪ As Data Engineer Lead designed architecture for streaming applications, data extracts and
MDL Cloud Migration data catalog for Hadoop to GCP migration.
▪ Directed a team of data engineers in building and optimizing data pipelines, ensuring data
Organization
accuracy and efficiency.
Accenture, India
▪ Working with the stakeholders to understand requirements for the data platform and code
migration. Involved in Infra architecture, Configuring GKE, databases and other services to
Role
Associate Manager (Lead run the application.
Data Engineer, MLOps ▪ Responsible for the end-to-end operational management of cloud data platform, adhering to
Engineer) required data management and governance practices
▪ Developing processes in Spark, Writing complex SQL queries, Building ETL/data pipelines
▪ Monitoring issues and makes updates to keep stream apps running smoothly. Data validation
and platform validation between Big Data platform GCP environment, creation of automation
scripts for GCP environment for validations, deployment of the newly build jobs on GCP
environment from using Jenkins & spinnaker pipeline
▪ Creation of automated job for data validations between the tables using BDD framework.
▪ Worked as a MLOps Engg, Design, develop, monitor, and maintain end-to-end ML pipelines,
including data ingestion, preprocessing, feature engineering, model training, evaluation, and
deployment. Collaborate with Engineering architects to build scalable pipelines for ML driven
Page 2
features.
▪ Integrate ML pipelines with CI/CD systems, ensuring smooth automation of build, test, and
deployment processes. Manage infrastructure resources for ML pipeline deployment on GCP
platform. Collaborate with Product Managers, Data Scientists and other stakeholders to
deploy models that drives key features of the product
Project Details Responsibilities
AXA France ▪ As a Migration Lead, worked on shaping data, infrastructure, ensuring its efficiency,
scalability, and Design and implement data architecture strategies that support the Data
Organization
Migration initiatives.
Accenture, India
▪ Ownership of solution design that meets the objectives. Develop and maintain cloud-based
data solutions using AWS and DataBricks platform. Created and manage ETL processes to
Role
move and transform data from various sources into a structured format for analysis. Worked
Associate Manager (Data
Migration Lead and with analysts to understand data sources, and attributes, and devise mechanisms for ETL.
Salesforce BA) ▪ Utilize SQL and Python for data processing, analytics, and tableau for data visualization and
reporting. Implement, manage, and optimize ETL platforms, ensuring data integration and
transformation processes are efficient and error-free
▪ Implement Salesforce as Case Management System (Service Cloud) for two business lines and
in multiple geographies in the insurance branch.
▪ Handle and arbitrate on functional topics in order to identify new CMS features as well as
defining target agent processes that meet business needs.
▪ The link between business and development team to identify, define and validate user
stories, make sure that user stories meet the business requirements, Align with Product
Owners on common and priority requirements.
▪ Write, prioritize and maintain the product backlog according to business requirements and
the delivery capacity.
▪ Lead sprint planning and participate to agile rituals. Dependency management with other
Global Assets. Identifying data dependencies between assets.
Project Details Responsibilities
NBC Universal ▪ Involved in release planning, requirement understanding, detail level estimations, task
distributions
Organization
▪ Gathering information of all the data processing jobs like source, target tables, impacted
InfoCepts Technologies
reports
▪ Developing processes in Spark, Writing complex SQL queries and building ETL/data pipelines
Role
for data lakes and Datawarehouse.
ETL Project Lead
▪ Creation of automated test cases for data validations between the tables using Pyspark
▪ Managing the provision of data sets and tools for business data analysis and analytics
▪ Develop a variety of database query and visualization tools to identify and understand
platform issues or events
▪ Provide technical expertise in extraction, integration, and analysis of critical data
▪ Involved in production parallel testing till the AWS environment is live
▪ Involved in closure and cleanup activity after release
▪ Involved with client communication for status calls
Page 3
Project Details Responsibilities
Mule Accounts ▪ Data Load Specification, Sprint planning, Requirement Gathering and Requirement analysis.
▪ Resolving Requirement related issues and Vendor management.
Organization
▪ Creating Source to target mapping on top of business requirement.
Barclays
▪ Designed Mock-up, Created LDM and Physical warehouse schema.
▪ Created ETL mappings, workflows and stored procedures.
Role
ETL Engineer ▪ Prepared test cases for the target database, defined and created MicroStrategy objects
including attributes, filters, metrics, hierarchies, custom groups and reports
Project Details Responsibilities
Pacific Life, ▪ Offshore project lead
TD Bank, MFS ▪ Prioritized the tickets and assigned them to the offshore team
▪ Kept track of the status and sent weekly reports to the client
Organization
▪ Prepared monthly retrospective deck
Accenture, India
▪ Requirement gathering for small development from business users
▪ Informatica production support and monitoring
Role
Sr. Software Engineer ▪ Informatica jobs monitoring and fixing the replication issues
▪ Jitterbit production support and monitoring
▪ Worked on change requests and enhancements
▪ Resolved the batch failures and Investigated the issues and fixed the failures
Project Details Responsibilities
miRevenue • Worked on data quality of a middle ware system primarily validating source file (unix) data
dump to a table with some transformations
Organization
• Development and execution of test cases for various business scenarios
IBM
• Furnishing accurate test results, defects, and evidence in ALM/QC by precisely following
standard QC hygiene, has been well appreciated by the stake holders
Role
Sr. Software Engineer • Estimation of work duration for project explicitly for each test phase and tracking the same for
entire application to ensure there in no breach of the service level agreement
Project Details Responsibilities
Barclays, Credit Suisse • Creating and executing System test cases and User acceptance test cases
• Test Environment setup
Organization
• Running the Informatica workflows and execute Batch jobs/Shell scripts with the help of
Wipro Technologies
Control-M and UNIX
Role • Data Reconciliation between source & target.
Project Engineer • Monitor the database CPU and Memory utilization (using UNIX and database logs) and
Response time to complete each process. Data validation analysed data prepare
report/results and sent it to client.
•
Personal Profile
Marital Status : Married
Languages : English, Hindi, Marathi
Address : Gayatri Nagar, Nagpur, Maharashtra - 440022
Page 4