VIJAYRAJ N
Senior ETL Tester & QA Engineer
​9964453170 ​vijayraj.n170@gmail.com ​www.linkedin.com/in/vijayraj-n706962302 ​Bangalore
SUMMARY EXPERIENCE
Senior ETL Testing and QA Engineer with 6+ years of overall IT experience, Senior Software Engineer-(Contract)
including ETL Testing validating complex data pipelines, ensuring data
Taltech Technologies Pvt Ltd
quality, and driving test automation. Skilled in ETL, Data Warehouse (DWH)
and Data Migration Testing, with expertise in Python automation, Snowflake, 2025 - 2025 Bangalore, India
and SQL. Proven ability to deliver robust solutions across cloud platforms • Designed and executed detailed ETL test cases covering data ingestion,
(AWS, Azure, GCP) in Agile environments, while effectively collaborating with transformation, and integration in cloud environments with snowflake DB.
cross-functional teams and contributing to overall data governance • Performed source-to-target mapping and data validation for complex
data warehouse (DWH), ensuring high data quality standards.
• Managed Python automation scripts for regression testing, data
EDUCATION reconciliation, and data quality rules to reduce manual effort.
• Managed defect lifecycle using HP ALM and Jira within Agile sprints,
ensuring timely resolution and strong collaboration with data
B.E ( Computer Science Engineering )
engineering teams.
Visveshwaraya Technological University
2011 - 2015 Senior Quality Engineer
• Jnana Vikas Institute of Technology Larsen &Toubro Infotech
2021 - 2022 Bangalore, India
Certification
• Developed advanced SQL queries to verify transformations and
Indian Institute of Technology – Madras (IIT-M) aggregations across multiple layers.
2022 - 2024 • Documented test strategy, scenarios, and defect reports, improving
transparency and governance.
• Master Data Science Program
• Performed data reconciliation and regression testing across staging
and target environments including snowflake database.
• Collaborated with data engineers and other teams for defect triage and
SKILLS
sprint reviews.
• Implemented data quality rules, transformations, and SCD validations
across multiple layers and BI testing.
ETL Testing Data Validation Data Warehouse (DWH) Testing
Senior Associate
PL-SQL Regression Testing Integrating Testing SQL
SBS Technologies Pvt Ltd
Data Quality Rules Data Ingestion Query Development 2020 - 2021 Bangalore, India
• Designed and executed ETL test cases for data migration and
transformation projects.
Defect Management Azure Python Automation for Testing
• Validated data completeness, accuracy, and referential integrity
between source and target systems.
Test Stratergy Data Transformations Test Defect Life Cycle • Performed incremental load validation and ensured data quality
through reconciliation reports.
• Collaborated with QA leads to identify, log, and track defects using Jira.
snowflake Python Informatica Transformation GCP
• Documented test results and participated in daily Agile stand-ups to
report test progress.
Reconciliation SCD Validation Control-M Power BI
Associate
Aegis Technologies Pvt Ltd
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
2018 - 2019 Bangalore, India
• Supported ETL testing team by executing SQL queries to validate data
Optimized Testing Efficiency extraction and transformation.
Reduced data validation time by 30% using automated Python scripts for test • Performed basic source-to-target data validation to ensure consistency
execution. between systems.
• Assisted in reconciliation testing for migrated data across staging and
reporting layers.
Ensured Data Integrity
• Logged and tracked defects in Quality Center (QC) and coordinated
Successfully managed 50+ defects to closure per project within Agile sprints with developers for resolution.
using Jira. • Participated in daily Agile stand-ups and sprint retrospectives.
• Helped prepare test data, maintain documentation, and support test
Strengthened Data Governance execution activities.
Improved overall data quality management through well-defined test strategy
and consistent documentation practices. Product Designer
Hinduja Global Solutions Pvt Ltd
Enhanced ETL Automation
2016 - 2018 Bangalore, India
Maintained reusable Python and SQL validation scripts, improving regression
test coverage and data quality reporting. • Analyzed customer interaction data and designed reporting dashboards
that improved visibility into product performance and customer trends.
Demonstrated Learning • Designed and optimized process flow documents and UI layouts for
Consistently enhanced technical and analytical skills by contributing to higher internal products, ensuring seamless coordination between support
testing efficiency and team performance. and development teams.
​
www.enhancv.com Powered by