

VISHAL PRAKASH
DATA SCIENTIST

Objective
9096153599
vpraksh634@gmail.com

Pimple Saudagar, Pune:411017



Being a Data Scientist Enthusiast looking for the challenging opportunity in Data scientist, I intend to be a part of an organization where I can constantly learn and apply my knowledge, integrate myself into the organizational culture and diligently work to add value to it.
SUMMARY
Having 7.1+ years of experience in data science and analytics, I have honed my skills in developing, implementing, and optimizing OpenAI models for various applications, including chatbots and customer support systems.
Designed and developed backend services using Python to support OpenAI-powered solutions.
Worked with custom datasets, utilizing techniques such as chunking and embeddings to train and fine- tune Lang Chain RAG pipeline models.
Integrated AWS/EC2 Deployment Services to extend functionality and enhance AI solutions.
Regularly reviewed and fine-tuned OpenAI models to ensure maximum accuracy and relevance for custom datasets.
Collaborated with cross-functional teams to ensure the smooth deployment and integration of AI
Stayed updated with the latest advancements in OpenAI and Azure to drive innovation and GEN AI solutions.
Experienced in developing algorithms for machine learning and deep learning in Python. Proficient in image processing, NLP, and computer vision.
Demonstrated expertise in data manipulation and data wrangling using Python, along with writing well- designed, testable, and efficient code following best software development practices.
Developed data solutions using multiple sources, including Python, R, and various ML
Utilized data visualization tools such as Tableau, and implemented techniques in deep learning, NLP, computer vision, OpenCV, CNN, Mask R-CNN, PyTorch, RNN, and other platform APIs.
Collaborated with team members to optimize customer engagement and experience.
Created data visualizations for complex datasets and analytics results using modern visualization tools and predictive analytics.
	Experienced in the Led rapid model creation in Python using Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-Learn, and Plotly for effective data visualization.
Analyzed system or data processes, data structures, and analytics methods, applying key data science techniques (machine learning, data mining, analysis) to build high-quality predictive systems.
Identified hidden patterns or systematic risks through qualitative and quantitative data analysis.
Developed solutions that enable highly effective presentations and engaging visualizations for decision- making.
Collaborated with data scientists to develop a Python codebase for predictive and prescriptive modeling, along with other data science capabilities.
	Created a multivariate regression-based attribution model and segmentation module using K-means clustering.
Developed an NLP model for sentiment analysis for predictive analytics on AWS (EC2).
Experienced in the development of modules for AI and neural networks using Python and other technologies.
Experience	
3.7+ years of experience as a Data Scientist with python developer at CAPGEMINI ENGINEERING PVT. LTD from 1 APRIL 2022 to the present.
1 years of experience as a Data Scientist with python developer at STARLINK TECHNOLOGY PVT.LTD (www.starlinkinfo.in) from 4 Jan 2021 to 14 DEC 2021
2.5+ years of experience as a Data Scientist with python developer at HCL CDC PUNE from 10 July 2018 to 31 Dec 2020.

TECHNICAL SKILLS
Data scientist Technologies: Open AI, Chat GPT, Lang Chain, RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation), Embeddings, Fine-Tuning, Chunking, Generative AI Few-Shot and Zero-Shot Learning Vector Database, Llama, machine learning, deep learning, Image processing, NLP, neural network, Artificial Intelligence, computer vision, statistical tool.
Languages: Python, R
Big data- pyspark, Scala.
Framework - Django, AWS, (EC2)
Web Technologies: HTML, CSS,
IDE and tools: STS, PyCharm, Anaconda, Notepad++
Others- Azure Machine Learning, Tableau, SQL, MS office Suite.

EDUCATION

Diploma in Data Science.
Passed Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication from Amravati University with CGPA 6.53.
Passed Diploma in Electronics and Telecommunication from MSBTE Mumbai with aggregate with 69%.
Passed Higher and Secondary School Certificate from Maharashtra state Board with 60%.
Passed Secondary School Certificate from Maharashtra state Board with 57%

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Data Scientist
PROJECTS: GENAI BASED SMART TECH ASSISTANTUSECASE (CAPTA)
Design and develop backend services using Python to support OpenAI-powered solutions.
Work with custom datasets, utilizing techniques like chunking and embeddings, to train and fine-tune Lang chain rag pipeline models gene.
Integrate Azure cognitive services to extend functionality and improve AI solutions.
Regularly review and fine-tune OpenAI models to ensure maximum accuracy and relevance for custom datasets.
Collaborate with cross-functional teams to ensure smooth deployment and integration of AI solutions.
Stay updated with the latest advancements in OpenAI and azure to bring innovation and solutions and generative AI
Experience in the development of algorithms for machine learning and deep learning python.
Experience in Image processing and NLP, computer vision.
Working experience in data manipulation and data wrangling packages in Python and Writing well designed, testable, efficient code by using best software development practices
Develop data solutions using multiple sources: Python, R, and Machine Learning algorithms and Data
Visualization tool Tableau, Deep Learning, NLP computer vision, OpenCV, CNN, mask RNN, PyTorch, RNN, and another platform API’s
Collaborate with team members to optimize customer
Data visualization of complex data and analytics result in the modern data visualization tool & predictive analytics
Steering rapid model creation in python using pandas, NumPy, scikit-Learn &plot.ly for data Visualization
Analyze on system or data processes, data structures, analytics methods and apply key techniques of
data science (machine learning, data mining, analysis) to build high-quality predictive system
Identify hidden pattern or systematic risk using qualitative and quantitative data analysis
Develop solutions allowing highly effective presentation and engaging visualization for decision Making
Work with the data scientist to develop a python codebase for predictive and prescriptive modeling, along with the development of other data science capabilities
Created multivariate regression-based attribution model & segmentation module using K-means Clustering
Creating an NLP model for sentiment analysis for predictive analytics in on AWS(EC2)

PROJECTS:
Ecommerce product classification:
The primary goal of an ecommerce site is to sell goods online. This project with developing an e-commerce Website for online product sales. It provides the user with a catalog of different Products available for purchase in the store. In order to facilitate online purchase, I provided a shopping cart to the user.
Experience in Data Science Technologies: Python, R, and Machine Learning algorithms and Data Visualization Tool Tableau, Deep Learning, NLP
Experience working on an ecommerce application
Experience with developing object-oriented software in python
Experience developing web services (SOAP/Rest API)
Backend software development lifecycle experience including the ability to perform independent analysis
Experience and understanding of development lifecycle
Experience in reviewing python code for running the troubleshooting test-cases and bug issues.
Used Python's sci-kit-learn library to understand the details of a client telemarketing campaign.
Optimized the pricing of products in real-time.
Designed and applied statistical and mathematical methods for corporate analytics that were implemented into client-facing products.
Contributed Model complex mobile carrier problems through using statistical, algorithmic, mining, and visualization techniques.
Produced operable insights using supervised and unsupervised machine learning.
Predictive Modeled, and Statistical Analysis Using artificial neural networks (ANN)
Used machine learning algorithms to build a model able to predict which clients to engage based on a variety of client, macro, and campaign-specific characteristics.
Used Python IDE PyCharm for developing the code and performing the unit test.
Used perforce version control system and Python Tools for Visual Studio (PTVS) IDE.
Create and write result reports in different formats like text, CSV, Xls, and JSON.
Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the SQL database.

PROJECTS:
Fraudulent Insurance Claim Detection Technology:
Python, NumPy, scikit-learn, seaborn, random forest, logistic regression Description: Creating fraudulent insurance claim predicting model for our client.
I was able to predict that the insured has fraud claim or not. So that the client could decide whether to consider its claim or to investigate further before servicing it further. I applied logistic regression, decision tree, random forest algorithm for predictions.
Sentiment analysis of call conversation Technology:
Automatic PDF report python, NLP, NLTK, deep speech, in this project we have a client from calling process where client have inbound call process.
Sentiment Analysis: Use NLP models (like from Hugging Face or OpenAI) to detect positive, negative, or neutral sentiments.
Apply separately to both the employee and the caller's speech.
FAQ Generation: Extract common questions or concerns from the conversations.
Use clustering or keyword extraction to identify frequently asked topics.
Summarize or rephrase into clear FAQ entries.

Classifier Technology:
python, NLP, NLTK, python-pdfbox, apache-pdfbox, In this
Project, we have client who is in the fertilizer testing. In this project we are building the automatic pdf report classifier which will classify the report as a draft report and the final report. In addition to that we must take some annotation details of that document based on the report to store some metadata of that document.

PROJECTS:
JUNIOR DATA SCIENTIST
Financial & Data Analytics:
Develop data solutions using multiple sources: Python, R, and Machine Learning algorithms and Data Visualization Tool Tableau, Deep Learning, NLP computer vision, OpenCV,
CNN, mask R CNN, PyTorch, RNN, NN, and another platform API’s
Collaborate with team members to optimize customer
Data visualization of complex data and analytics result in the modern data visualization tool & predictive analytics
Steering rapid model creation in python using pandas, NumPy, scikit-Learn &plot.ly for data visualization
Analyze on system or data processes, data structures, analytics methods and apply key techniques of data science (machine learning, data mining, analysis) to build high-quality predictive system
Self-dependent execution and managing to analytical and project
Identify hidden pattern or systematic risk using qualitative and quantitative data analysis
Develop solutions allowing highly effective presentation and engaging visualization for decision making
Work with the data scientist to develop a python codebase for predictive and prescriptive modeling, along with the development of other data science abilities
Created multivariate regression-based attribution model & segmentation module using K-means clustering
Creating an NLP model for sentiment analysis for predictive analytics in on AWS(EC2)
Additional Details	
Participated in DS Global Hackathon 2k19.
Hobbies: Catching snakes & cooking.

PERSONAL PROFILE	
Date of Birth: 16 July 1989
Gender: Male
Marital Status: married
Current Address: Pune (MS)
DECLARATION	
I hereby declare that the information provided above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.


VISHAL ITWARE

